Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Construction Act brings Senate into conflict with Hugo de Jonge
NRC.nl
July 18, 2023 7:35 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1116 ​​words
Byline: Sjoerd Klumpenaar, Rik Rutten
Highlight: A construction law causes a conflict between the Senate and Minister De Jonge, which threatens its introduction on January 1.
Body


'Out of office' is written on Hugo de Jonge's white cycling socks. In a cheerful Instagram video, the outgoing Minister for Housing (CDA) cycles from his office to the elevator, smiling broadly, where he looks back and gives a thumbs up. The message: I'm going on holiday without any worries.
Members of the Senate think very differently about this. Last week an argument arose between the Senate and De Jonge about the introduction of part of the Environmental Act. Since De Jonge refused to implement a motion by Ferd Crone (PvdA-GroenLinks), among others, senators have been considering follow-up questions and a possible debate after the recess.
The point is the implementation date of the Quality Assurance for Construction Act (Wkb); This would come into effect on January 1, 2024 as part of the Environmental Act. A majority of the Senate voted last week in favor of the motion to suspend the effective date.
But De Jonge does not intend to implement that motion, he said in a letter on Monday. According to the minister, the Wkb is so intertwined with the Environmental Act that it would not work properly if they did not come into effect at the same time.
Senator Crone had initiated the motion together with BBB colleague Eric Kemperman. It bothers him that De Jonge, as a caretaker minister, ignores a motion from the Senate. “We can't send him away anymore, because he's already resigned. But that doesn't make him any less responsible.”
Concerns about feasibility
It is not the first time that the Environmental Act has caused a stir in the Senate. The law bundles all legislation in the field of spatial planning and environmental permits. This should make matters regarding spatial planning simpler, but the fear of legal inequality and problems with ICT during testing made the Senate hesitant.
After five postponements, the Senate finally opened in March of this year, as of January 1.
The Wkb stipulates that supervision of construction quality will be the responsibility of market parties instead of municipalities. From next year, when constructing small offices and homes that require a permit, a 'quality assurance' must monitor the construction - an external company hired by the person applying for the permit. It must ensure better construction quality, lower costs of failed construction projects and a stronger position for consumers in construction.
But the Senate has concerns. For example, there are doubts as to whether there are enough quality assurance officers to assess all construction projects. Without a guarantor, a construction project will not be able to start, which could cause further delays in housing construction. There are also concerns that the use of market parties will make construction even more expensive.
There are also legal concerns. For example, quality assurance authorities must reject buildings if they do not meet one hundred percent of the building standards. For example, if the ceiling of a bathroom is five centimeters too low, then according to the Wkb the building would have to be raised until it is just right - with all the associated costs. The municipality may decide to tolerate it after all, but no policy has yet been drawn up for this. This means more legal uncertainty, which also raises the question of whether insurers still want to bear the risk during renovations, says Crone. “The minister has said that we will be working on this in October. That seems very short notice to me, because it is not clear whether they will be finished with it in October.”
In his explanatory letter, De Jonge argues that there will indeed be enough quality guarantees, especially as the demand for their services increases - and that postponement will in any case not result in more quality guarantees.
But De Jonge cannot ignore the criticism from the Senate. Certainly not now that the coalition has fewer seats than before since the elections a few months ago. And since the two largest opposition blocs, the BBB and the shared list of PvdA and GroenLinks, have joined forces.
The two groups previously announced that they were asking the House of Representatives to demand wage increases and more money to combat poverty.
Postponement of the Environmental Act?
But that is not the only problem for De Jonge. Because now that the effective date of the Wkb is under discussion, the introduction of the entire Environmental Act is also coming under pressure.
While Kajsa Ollongren (D66), De Jonge's predecessor as minister on the housing construction dossier, was of the opinion that the Environment Act could also come into effect without the Quality Assurance Act, according to De Jonge this is now a different story.
Also read: Major law change could delay expropriation of farmers
According to De Jonge, the Wkb is already so "intertwined" with the digital part of the Environmental Act that problems will arise in implementation if the laws do not come into effect at the same time. In a letter to the Senate on Friday, De Jonge describes the Environmental Act as a "structure" from which "a stone cannot simply be taken out", not even temporarily. According to the minister, other rules are "figuratively hanging in the air" and are "not readable and therefore not enforceable."
If both the Senate and De Jonge hold firm, another postponement of the Environmental Act cannot be ruled out.
The Environmental Act was supposed to come into effect in 2019, but that will now be in 2024. In the meantime, municipalities and construction companies are waiting for the introduction of the Wkb, which was postponed with the several postponements of the Environmental Act.
Bouwend Nederland has never been a fan of the Wkb. The trade association shares the concerns of the Senate about the number of available quality guarantees and possible cost increases. But since the effective date of the Environmental Act has been approved by parliament, the trade association has taken a pragmatic position: if the law does come into force, construction companies must know where they stand and what they need to prepare for. “The lack of clarity for our members is very annoying. They have been preparing for months for the introduction of the law, and what its introduction from January 1 will mean for them," said lawyer Reina Uittenbogaard of Bouwend Nederland. A new postponement would prolong that uncertainty.
An important addition is that, as far as Bouwend Nederland is concerned, the law should initially only apply to new construction and not also to renovations, so that construction companies have more time to get used to it. “We advocate a phased introduction of the law.” Municipalities want the law to immediately apply to both renovations and new construction - after all, exceptions mean extra regulations.
Member of Parliament Crone says he is disappointed in De Jonge's attitude. “He is now taking a big risk: things could go wrong with this law from January 1 because there is still a lot of legal uncertainty for consumers and the construction sector.”

Load Date: July 19, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")