Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=14 things not to do on the first date; Japke-d. thinks along

NRC
June 13, 2023 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: LIFE; Page 8
Length: 837 words
Byline: Japke-d. Bouma.
Body


ABSTRACT
We all want a successful first date. Don't talk about your ex all the time, leave your wedding dress at home and don't immediately start talking about an STD test, Japke-d advises. Bouma.
COMPLETE TEXT:
For everyone who has been happily married, partnered, engaged or otherwise committed for years, this week will be a piece of cake: you don't have to read my column - that's nice sometimes, right?
For all the people who are looking for the love of their life, or just someone to watch Netflix with on the couch for the rest of their lives, I also have good news: this one is especially for you.
Because since I wrote a few weeks ago about what you should not put on your dating profile, the time has now come to approach the first date in a radically different way. Here are the best tips.
1 Don't talk about yourself all the time. The Fidel Castro effect, so to speak. So suppress the urge to spend hours talking about your heavy metal hobby, your horoscope, your cycling laps, your cat, everything related to 'brewing beer' and instead ask for something in return. Works like crazy! If necessary, pretend you are interested.
2 Leave your work at home. There is really no one interested in Kanban boards, opex dashboards, refinements that need to be added to the backlog, task forces, quartermasters and the new Environmental Act. You're on a date, aren't you? Not during a quotation meeting. Avoid the word 'bitcoin' in any case. There are women who, upon hearing it, get up and leave. You might as well say that you think Harvey Weinstein was treated very harshly.
3 Don't spend hours whining about your ex. That's so unattractive. Above all, avoid painful details. That she had such stupid breasts, that he had such a small one, that he cheated on him with his boss, that she never wanted to be from behind - I'm making up these examples, of course - cough. If you want to end the date quickly, it is of course very smart to say these kinds of things.
4 Don't start talking about your special interests in the first minute. Wait a while with that (witchcraft, folding bicycle, foot fetishism, Tesla, believing in gnomes, astrology, etc.) Ideal for the second date!
5 Don't show too much understanding. Keep it light. Otherwise, before you know it, you will be in a therapy session for which you cannot send an invoice.
6 If you want to have children, don't start talking about it in the first minute. And therefore not 'whether there is Down syndrome or autism in your family in connection with our children' - it really happened. Then your date feels reduced to being a sperm donor.
7 Also avoid other knife-to-the-throat situations. Like asking for an STD test, the 'you have to choose: cats or dogs!' and visiting schedules along the lines of 'I have squash on Mondays, office days on Tuesdays, cycling on Thursdays, Sundays for myself and Fridays and every other weekend with my children, so I can go every Wednesday and every Saturday every two weeks, do you?
8 Do not wear a wedding dress, do not bring a cohabitation contract or brochures for the summer holidays. Also bad: the 'are you prepared to move to The Hague, otherwise we better put an end to it now'. Dude, I've only known you for an hour. Chill.
9 Don't give your date tips about appearance in the first minute. About hairstyle ('you could dye your hair'), clothing ('prefer a skirt'), posture ('this diet does work well'), teeth ('maybe braces?'), shoes ('preferably no sneakers' ). Look at yourself dude.
10 In fact, don't go on a date without first looking in the mirror. It will of course be noticeable if you have binge-watched NikkieTutorials, but don't show up with the spaghetti sauce from three weeks ago on your SuperDry shirt when you haven't looked at your teeth, toenails, nose and ear hair for six months.
11 Never have sex on the first date? I do not know. Take a look for yourself to see how the flag hangs or stands.
12 Then, finally, something about rejection. Don't 'ghost' your date if you didn't like it, but always let them know. I once called in Derk Bolt because I was afraid that my date had died. But keep it short. So stop with those endless rejection apps, and especially those with 'tips and tops' in the category 'what I often saw you do is react very defensively, while I think you are a people person'. Get lost. If I want 360-degree feedback, I'll look on LinkedIn.
13 Don't argue if you've been rejected. That's creepy. Dating is not a matter of being right. You can be rejected because of your canines, because of your place of residence, or because of your car - let it go.
14 And oh yes: don't sit around feeling sad! Try to have some fun with it. As if your alternative is so much more attractive, also: spending another evening on the couch - yes, right.
Certainly: too much love will kill you, as Freddy Mercury once sang. But he also wrote: play the game - who knows. Moreover, if it fails, you have a good story for your friends who all have a super happy relationship. Let me know how it went!
Boldly move forward.
How was your week? Tips for Japke-d. Boumavia @Japked on Twitter.
Link to PDF

Notes

How was your week? Tips for Japke-d. Boumavia @Japked on Twitter.

Load Date: June 12, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")