Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Endured everything but harvested no love
de Volkskrant
September 20, 2016 Tuesday


Copyright 2016 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 8, 9
Length: 6 words
Byline: BY THE POLITICAL EDITORIAL
Highlight: They wanted to take tough action, reform and remove taboos. But did they? On the last Budget Day of this cabinet, the Volkskrant will measure the thirteen ministers against their own yardstick. Rutte II's final report.
Body



View the original page: page 8, page 9

Graphic

 
Mark Ruttegeneral affairs - vvdA cabinet that reaches the finish line is a new experience for an entire generation of Dutch people. An admirable achievement, especially given all the headwinds. The recession turned out to be much more persistent than expected. Internationally, the unrest was enormous: the euro crisis, the near-Grexit, the shooting down of flight MH17, the refugee crisis, attacks, the referendum on Ukraine and Brexit. Rutte weathered everything and managed to implement an impressive package of reforms with his cabinet. Now he wants to harvest. The economy is growing, unemployment is falling. Negative point: almost no one likes this government. The idea that VVD and PvdA have to finish their job together has evaporated. The Prime Minister is also to blame for this. The formation was the work of a small group of men who misjudged issues such as the income-related healthcare premium and the criminalization of illegality. Hardly any thought was given to a common vision, the role of the Senate was under...
Stef Blokwonen and civil service - vvdThe least audible, but certainly not the least effective minister of Rutte II. Early in this cabinet period, Stef Blok came across the tolerance construction that would prove to be the pillar of Rutte's minority coalition. He convinced the Senate factions of D66, ChristenUnie and SGP of his housing plans and immediately put three ticks behind the housing market passage from the coalition agreement: restriction of mortgage interest deduction, higher rents, a levy for corporations. Less successful: banks turned their noses up at his complicated 'Block mortgage' for starters. As Minister of the Civil Service, he cut back on the civil service. He relaxed the rules for municipalities to accommodate refugees in converted office buildings and government buildings. There is no effect yet: 15,000 status holders are waiting in asylum seekers' centers for housing elsewhere. His legacy to The Hague: he persuaded parliament to close the Binnenhof for more than five years for...
Bert Koendersforeign affairs - pvdaTurkey was not impressed when he came to Ankara last month to ask whether they did not want to further fuel tensions in the Turkish-Dutch community. The next day, the Turkish state news agency published a list of political enemies in the Netherlands. It is the fate of the minister who does not back down publicly. His predecessor Timmermans did it differently; After apologizing to the Russians, he casually posted the song Je ne regrette rien on his Facebook page. We will never catch Koenders on such a diplomatic knee. He prefers to play the game behind the scenes. A useful quality as a diplomat, but not necessarily as a minister, from whom the people expect decisiveness. Bombing IS fighters in Syria? Koenders held it back for months. Taking Guantánamo Bay prisoners? Koenders doesn't say no, nor does he say yes. The exception is the UN mission in Mali. He wants to extend, while soldiers themselves would rather return home. Wha...
Jet Bussemakeronderwijs - pvdaInequality is increasing in education, the Inspectorate concluded in April this year. A hammer blow after four years of government for the responsible minister, who is from the PvdA background. Jet Bussemaker had to deal with more suffering: the registrations of first-year students faltered after the introduction of the loan system. You see, the opposition parties said, you should have known that, right? Bussemaker then becomes a bit testy. “Bow wave effect,” she said of the students staying away. Just take a dip and it will pick up again. And inequality exists everywhere in society: highly educated people marry highly educated people, poverty is often hereditary, these are social phenomena and so you see them reflected in the classroom. There is not much a minister can do about that. She is not easily swayed. She counts her blessings with a certain imperturbability. We have universities and colleges, but we also have secondary vocational education and attention is being paid to that again. But the...
Lodewijk Asschersocial affairs - pvdaIn the coalition agreement, Lodewijk Asscher was saddled with a VVD agenda. He and State Secretary Jetta Klijnsma have used every opportunity to weaken that order. First in the Social Agreement with the trade union movement and employers, then in the agreements with D66, CU and SGP. Here and there there were fears that he would succumb to the sky-high expectations, but Asscher also turned out to master the craft behind the scenes and quietly built up his profile. Also by adding his own agenda on fair work and a social Europe ('Orange Code') to the coalition agreement. The major changes that Asscher has initiated (unemployment benefits, pensions, Participation Act) have yet to be fully implemented. Everyone still has to get used to the dismissal rules and flexible work - experts are constantly arguing about whether there will really be more permanent jobs. As Minister of Integration, Asscher has set a clear, strict course, but it remains primarily an area ...
Henk Kampeconomic affairs - vvdHenk Kamp was a minister three times in other ministries when he joined EZ in 2012. After this he left national politics after 23 years. If his final job determines the verdict of history, Kamp is out of luck. He worked hard to help the damaged economy with innovation and stimulation, but the gas from Groningen defines his ministership. The coalition agreement did not state that Groningen is shaking because of gas extraction. And not that the safety of Groningen residents is more important than the billions of euros in gas money. Result: emotional Groningen residents. You must have Henk Kamp. He was once a detective at the FIOD. He reasons from A to B, without tender-hearted detours. He thought: if I honestly tell the residents in the lion's den in Loppersum that the gas tap can only be closed a little, that they will have to regard the earthquakes as a fact of life, then their tears will dry up. was miss...
Melanie Schultz infrastructure and environment - vvdThe chance that you know who Melanie Schultz van Haegen is is not very high. But you've probably seen her passing by. In a photo in the newspaper next to a traffic sign with 130 on it. In a short news item on TV in a self-driving car. Or with foreign men in suits who want Schultz's help in their fight against the water. She does not rule out continuing her work in her field, where she has been active for eleven years, in the business world. She can also easily switch, because she lacks any political profile. Schultz is not councilor Hekking van Juinen, hungry for attention. Schultz is just doing her job. For example, she silently guided a mega law through an almost unanimous House of Representatives that bundles 26 existing laws and hundreds of rules, the Environment Act. Schultz was hardly in the House and when she was there she never got into trouble. Her State Secretary Mansveld, who had taken over the most vulnerable subjects, even more so. D...
Ard van der Steurjustitie - vvdHe will not return to his party's candidate list and there is a good chance that the Ministry of Security and Justice will change its political color after seven years of VVD. Exit Van der Steur. His assessment also touches on that of his predecessor, Ivo Opstelten. Six years of VVD hegemony over Justice has ended in drama. The second report of the Oosting committee in particular, on the receipts affair, gave a shocking picture of personnel relations in the department. Van der Steur cheerfully started sweeping his ministry after Opstelten's fall. But what was visible to the outside world was a minister who was constantly stumbling. Eloquent, that's for sure, but still. The photo of Volkert, the pathologist about MH17, the difficult formation of a National Police, passing terrorist suspects - Van der Steur always had to go through the dust. Epicurean Van der Steur, who has just remarried, will have to wait it out - sending him away now has no effect. makes a lot of sense...
Jeanine Hennisdefensie - vvdThe uncertainty she said she felt in her first year as minister has been replaced by determination. She vigorously parries questions from the opposition. Yet she does not have much to be proud of. For the first time in decades, the Netherlands has an armed force that is 'not fully capable' of defending its own country, she confessed. A lack of budget, people and equipment also forces Defense to scale down foreign missions in Mali, Iraq and Afghanistan. She is thus breaking a promise from the coalition agreement. A tough one for the minister, who regularly harps on increasing threats on the edges of Europe. Hennis managed to weaken the announced cuts from 2012, but it is not nearly enough. The armed forces are squeaking and creaking and the patience of soldiers and allies is running out. Positive: she concludes smart cooperation agreements with Germany (army) and Belgium (air force) to still have a better...
Lilianne Ploumendevelopment aid, trade - Pvda She swears again and again: I am there for the poorest of the poor. But in practice, more than a quarter of its budget is spent on asylum reception in the Netherlands. And then there are also companies that are digging into the pot of 4.8 billion euros that Ploumen has at its disposal. They can declare 750 million euros in investments in developing countries to the minister. Aid organizations and lobby clubs are pilloriing the minister for this. It does not spoil her mood. She has been walking around happily for four years. It continues to amaze someone who sees more suffering every month than many Dutch people do in a lifetime. She has the social tide on her side. Traditional development aid used to be untouchable, but nowadays the Dutch want something in return. Regimes that receive our money must not be corrupt (Mozambique was put on hold this month) and our business community must also earn something from it. For the latter, she and Koen...
Jeroen Dijsselbloem finance - Pvda It was not a demasqué, but Jeroen Dijsselbloem has gone from 'alien' to 'just a good minister', from Krypton to Korte Voorhout, in the past four years. Everyone thought it was amazing that the usually grumpy PvdA MP, who had never done anything with his agricultural economics studies, quickly found himself at home in that difficult Finance Ministry. And always remained so cheerful. Apparently relaxed, Dijsselbloem fluttered through his grueling agenda - making cuts in the Netherlands in the morning, saving the eurozone banking sector in the afternoon and putting the watch on Cyprus in the evening. Gradually, The Hague found this normal and the people became astonished. oohs and ahhs. The House no longer treats Dijsselbloem as a hors catégorie, but as an ordinary politician who is too high on his horse. He is suddenly criticized in debates about back payments to Brussels, top pay at ABN Amro, dismissed railway executives and his sought-after accusations against D66 and ...
Ronald PlasterkHome Affairs - PvdaRonald Plasterk is one of the most gifted people at the Binnenhof. Yet his political career ends with disappointment. Did the PvdA member embark on an impossible mission in 2012? It is certain that other candidates thought the same way. Guusje ter Horst thanked the stripped-down department for the honor and Femke Halsema also immediately dismissed the suggestion. Plasterk agreed, but problems soon arose. The proposed merger of provinces failed, and the flamboyant Plasterk did not appear to thrive in the viscous administrative world. Few of the plans from the coalition agreement were subsequently implemented. Plasterk did get into trouble by wrongly suggesting to Nieuwsuur that Americans collected metadata here. He never got over that. Plasterk, who underwent heart surgery this summer, still has to try to get the new law on intelligence and security services passed by the Senate and House of Representatives...
Edith Schipperspublic health - vvdWhether she governs with the 'right' (Rutte I) or with the 'left' (Rutte II), it seems to make little difference to Schippers. This also depends on the assignment it received in the formation: this is how the healthcare system will be abolished, including the plans of Rutte I. Apart from a single outburst (the negative vote in the Senate on the 'free choice of doctors'), the PvdA accepted After the card game in the formation, all objections were removed. For the first time in living memory, healthcare expenditure increased less rapidly than expected in the last two years. The agreements with the healthcare sectors that underlie this were initially viewed with skepticism, but now even apply to the Central Planning Bureau as a condition for a brake on rising healthcare expenditure. Schippers' State Secretary Martin van Rijn performed a feat by redesigning youth care and especially long-term care. A feat, because it was still unthinkable in 2012 and because Van Rijn also had a large part of the opposition...

Load Date: September 19, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")