Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=All signals green for housing construction
Leidsch Dagblad
November 28, 2020 Saturday
City


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: PLUS; Page 10
Length: 661 words
Body


Although the housing shortage is high, construction in the Schiphol area has virtually come to a standstill as a result of new standards. With the Environmental Act on the table, Jurgen Nobel and Julius Terpstra urge the responsible minister Ollongren to take action.
There is a dire shortage of homes in the Netherlands, rising to almost a million by 2030. The waiting lists for social housing are long and owner-occupied homes for young families, healthcare workers, agents and teachers are significantly outbid and have become almost unaffordable.
Builders, developers and governments want to roll up their sleeves to realize the much-needed new homes. That is not always easy with obstacles such as nitrogen, PFAS and strict new noise standards. You would hope that the government would hire a bulldozer to remove all obstacles, take control and make the construction of new homes an absolute top priority.
Unfortunately, the opposite is true. But unfortunately, new obstacles are constantly being placed in the way, delaying the construction of houses. Sometimes it is nitrogen, sometimes PFAS and now strict new noise standards are being conjured up.
Impracticable
Last summer, Minister Ollongren (D66) came up with new additional noise pollution and quality of life standards for the Environmental Act. These new noise standards threaten to make almost all housing projects around Schiphol unfeasible. The construction of 380,000 (!) homes from Alphen aan den Rijn to Almere and from Castricum to Leiden is in doubt. With the new stricter standards, entire villages and municipalities are suddenly classified as unliveable.
While the number of building permits issued is already lagging far behind due to the corona crisis, the fear is that many municipalities will be able to issue even fewer permits due to the new calculations of environmental noise. In the municipality of Haarlemmermeer alone, 20,000 homes are in danger of not being built due to the stricter calculation methodology. A sad prospect for all those home seekers.
Urgency
Provinces, 54 municipalities and industry organizations such as Bouwend Nederland have previously written a letter of urgency to the cabinet, but have so far received no response.
In response to parliamentary questions from VVD and CDA, the minister indicated that the noise regulations have gone through a 'careful procedure' and that she will look into developing the measurement and calculation rules. The urgency seems to be completely missing. While Minister Ollongren, on the one hand, concludes 'housing deals' to stimulate housing construction, on the other hand she just as easily shuts down construction with the stricter noise measures. If it weren't so sad, it would be almost comical.
Of course we have to take the environment and noise pollution into account. A healthy living environment for residents, employees and visitors is in everyone's interest. It is therefore logical that construction cannot take place everywhere around the airport. But these new noise standards are now being imposed unilaterally by the municipalities around Schiphol, without the consequences being clear.
Local consideration
What we need now is a united, reliable and, above all, clear central government, which gives all the green signals for housing construction.
Give municipalities around Schiphol the space to build. Do not make the existing procedures even more complicated in the new environmental law, but rather more clear. That is how the Environmental Act was once intended: room for local consideration.
Quickly come up with a workable solution for the noise standards, do not create a second nitrogen crisis and ensure that new homes can be built. Do not put construction projects, and therefore the home seeker, at a 3-0 disadvantage because of these standards.
Jurgen Nobel and
 Julius Terpstra
Give municipalities around Schiphol the space to build
environmental code
Jurgen Nobel (VVD) is councilor for housing and airport affairs in Haarlemmermeer.
Julius Terpstra (CDA) is a Member of Parliament and spokesperson for housing, spatial planning and environmental law.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 27, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")