Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='If you look from a grip perspective, you see different things'
NRC
November 30, 2023 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 4
Length: 1381 words
Byline: Floor Rusman
Body


ABSTRACT
Interview with Mark Bovens researcher WRR
Grip is a buzzword among politicians, but attention should be even greater, the Scientific Council for Government Policy says in a report.
COMPLETE TEXT:
"With all the concerns and problems that exist, people look at us and say to us: take back control," VVD leader Dilan Yesilgöz said during the election campaign. Her party, like CDA, CU, BBB, NSC, SP, wants and GroenLinks-PvdA, 'control over migration'.
And this is not all. According to the election manifestos, parties want 'grip' on criminal networks and the affordability of healthcare (VVD); on CO2 emissions and collective expenditure (NSC); on the big tech companies (NSC and CU); on the availability of medicines (BBB and D66); on retirement, technology, the digital world and the supply of unhealthy food (D66); and on tax avoidance, internationalization, artificial intelligence, mental health care and public affairs (GroenLinks-PvdA). The word does not appear in the PVV election manifesto.
'Grip' is already a buzzword, but should become even more so, according to the Scientific Council for Government Policy (WRR). In the Grip report published this Thursday, the WRR advocates paying more attention to the control that people experience over life.
This ranges from big to small things. Do people experience control over larger issues through politics, such as those above? But also: do they feel that they can achieve their life goals, such as a home, a nice job, good health? That they have a say in what happens in their environment? Or do they feel like a plaything of fate?
These issues are at least as important as purchasing power and social security, argue WRR researchers Mark Bovens and Will Tiemeijer, but politicians and policymakers pay less attention to them.
Public administration expert Mark Bovens received a lot of publicity in 2011 for his book Diplomademocracy, about the gap between highly and poorly educated people. This report is once again about social inequality. Because the perceived control over life is also unevenly distributed: some citizens have much more say over, for example, their living environment and the balance between work and leisure than others. This is partly related to education and income level, the research shows, but other factors also play a role, such as personal circumstances.
Bovens talks about it in his room at the WRR. “If people do not experience grip, this can have major consequences for their health. For their life satisfaction, but even more so for the number of years they live healthily," he says. "We also see that a lack of control is one of the sources of general social unease. People will compensate for that lack of control through their salvation. to look for strong or authoritarian leaders. Or by thinking in terms of enemies or scapegoats. There are therefore plenty of reasons for the government to focus more on control."
Didn't you think when the cabinet fell, we actually want to release this before the elections?
Bovens: “No, it's the other way around. We planned to release this report in early October. But during election time all parties are on sending and not receiving. So we made a conscious decision not to present it until this week."
Couldn't the report have played a role in the public debate?
"We hope that it can play a role in long-term policy. That it can help the next government, whoever it will form, to look more broadly than just providing social security. As a government, you cannot promise to remove all uncertainties and you should not want to, because a certain degree of uncertainty keeps people alert. We say, above all, try to give people control, so that they can achieve their own life goals."
Would this broader way of looking at things also lead to different policies?
“If you look from a grip perspective, you see different things in existing files. Look at the large socio-economic health differences. We have seen for years that life expectancy and the number of years in good health differ enormously between people with high and low incomes, or with high and low education. And that it is not possible to close that gap. This is mainly attempted by focusing on prevention and information. But we show that it also has to do with experienced grip. Some people become ill because they have flexible jobs and have no control over their work and their income."
In the report, Bovens and behavioral scientist Tiemeijer mention a number of measures that could strengthen citizens' control. Means to have more autonomy: more care leave, more flexibility in choosing working hours, opportunities to continue learning and a more creative approach to rules in the housing market, which, for example, makes home exchange easier. But also means to gain control through politics: real participation on matters such as the installation of wind turbines, for example. For example, in Flevoland, where local residents were given a say in where the mills were located and how they worked, there was much less protest than in Drenthe, where this did not happen.
If you want participation to lead to more experienced control, something has to be done with that participation.
,,Yes. That is why we are concerned about the Environmental Act that will soon be introduced. It does not set any substantive requirements for the quality of citizen participation in construction projects. The idea is that we will figure it out together. We are very concerned that this laissez-faire approach will mean that some groups of citizens, and in particular the wealthy project developers, will be able to exercise much more control over the environment than others. Grip is sometimes a zero-sum game: more grip for one person is less grip for the other. This means that citizen participation is not always the solution to discomfort, but can even increase it."
You mention many more measures in the report that can increase control. But isn't the feeling of loss of control now so great that it is a drop in the ocean?
"We do not pretend that everything will work out automatically if you do all this, but this report emphatically provides a direction. In addition, there must be more collective control, via the government. There are a number of major social issues that citizens cannot solve themselves: the spatial planning of the Netherlands, migration and climate change. When citizens cannot gain control themselves, they look to others.
"It can therefore help if the government makes appealing and solid plans, such as the Vinex neighborhoods. That was a long-term vision for the design of space in the Netherlands. And think of the 'Room for the River' plan, which has succeeded in steering the complicated debate about the environment, dike reinforcement, etc. in the right direction. This has created a lot of peace and control in that area. But if the government does not respond to these types of issues, there is a good chance that some of the citizens will seek that control in other places. For example, by looking for scapegoats or by embracing authoritarian leaders."
What should politicians do in areas where there is a loss of control, such as the transfer of powers to the European Union? How do you prevent people from falling for a slogan like Take back control, the slogan of the pro-Brexit camp in the United Kingdom?
"There are indeed international circumstances that the Netherlands has to deal with. But that does not alter the fact that you have to develop a vision of where things should go. The situation in England showed that 'Take back control' was extremely appealing. The British government did not offer an appealing story in return, and this created space for these feelings."
More control over life is urgently needed, says the WRR
CV Professor
Mark Bovens (1957) studied constitutional and administrative law, political science and philosophy at Leiden University and Columbia University Law School in New York.
He introduced the concept of 'whistleblowing' in the Netherlands in 1987.
Bovens is professor of public administration at Utrecht University.
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Researchers cite Vinex neighborhoods, such as Vathorst in Amersfoort, as an example of a solid plan, which gives citizens more control.
Photo Rick Nederstigt/ANP

Load Date: November 29, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")