Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Beach development can be beneficial
de Volkskrant
January 9, 2016 Saturday


Copyright 2016 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Spark; Page 7
Length: 851 words
Byline: BY GIJS HABLOUS
Body


The other side
Become a Baywatcher and protect the coast, six nature and environmental organizations are calling on to protect the Zeeland and South Holland coast from the doomsday scenario that they themselves outline. The fear is that our dune area is in danger of becoming a long strip of holiday parks, catering establishments and expensive apartments.

'Belgianization' of the coast, writes the AD about the fears of nature conservationists, referring to the densely built-up coastal strip of our southern neighbors. 'Our nightmare is a coast that is far too overcrowded', can be read on the website of the Baywatch campaign, 'Protect the coast'. At the time of writing, more than 11 thousand people have signed the petition. The action by the nature organizations has been running for a number of months, but received media attention after the cabinet decision just before the Christmas recess to lift the general ban on construction outside built-up areas in coastal areas. From now on, whether or not to build at the sea will be a matter for the provinces and municipalities. The water boards remain responsible for protection against water.

Should we now worry that our coast is turning into a long strip of concrete? That fear may well be exaggerated. Exaggeration is part of taking action, maybe things won't go so smoothly.

And even if the holiday homes were to spring up like mushrooms, would that be such a disaster? The shrinking province of Zeeland benefits from tourism, beach tent owners can stay open longer. Moreover, the cabinet says, the flood defense is not in danger. Aren't there good arguments for building on the coast?
Gert de Groot
Works at Natuurmonumenten and involved in Protect the Coast
'I am not afraid of Belgian situations. The image I see before me is well-intentioned clutter. Every coastal municipality builds something that supposedly fits well with the environment. Maybe an architect will win a prize. But the broad view is missing. Building, okay, but do it smart and protect the openness of our dunes and beaches.'

Coastal protectors are not panicking, De Groot emphasizes. But think about it carefully before you build something.

'Of course, a local response to population decline is needed. Our action is not aimed at halting economic development. Recreation and tourism are also mentioned as arguments for construction. But analyzes show that there is no major shortage of residential recreation. There is a growing need for profitable real estate in beautiful places.

'The fact that the government is loosening the reins while the national environmental law and the vision for the coast are not yet complete worries me. The design of the coast is the responsibility of provinces and municipalities. They say: there is not much going on yet. That is true, but we are at a turning point: do we keep the open beaches and dunes or do we slowly fill them up? I can imagine that an alderman would like to put his stamp on policy and do 'something' about the deficit in the municipal treasury. The temptation to give in to the money from large projects is then great. As long as we guard against this at a national level, construction is not always and everywhere wrong.'
Patrick de Klerck
Mayor of the Belgian coastal municipality of Blankenberge
'I followed the discussion of the Dutch. The comparison with the Flemish coast was interesting. I think it's an exaggeration that yours would look like ours. The length alone - the Belgian coast is 67 kilometers - differs. Moreover, our coast is not uniform. Large buildings, residential areas, but also nature, such as in the Uitkerkse Polder, alternate.

'Certainly, it is densely populated and some parts have been overbuilt in the past. But as long as you build in a concentrated manner and don't make a mess of it, I don't see a problem.'
Carla Schönknecht
Representative of the province of Zeeland for the VVD
'It certainly won't be a jumble of projects by municipalities that don't work well together. And in any case: nature legislation is strongly anchored in the Netherlands, so nothing is going to suddenly change. The fact that certain municipalities are in financial difficulties should and will never be a reason to give in to enormous projects that are not supported by the population. The Zeelanders are proud of their unique landscape. The buildings that the province envisions do not compromise on this.'
Margot Tempelman and Diana Korteweg Maris
Coastal Tourism Knowledge Center, advises local authorities in the south-west of the Netherlands
Tempelman: 'We do not share the doomsday scenario of nature conservationists. Of course, tourists not only come to Zeeland because there are beautiful holiday parks, the peace and emptiness make the Zeeland coast unique. We look at the coast from the perspective of tourists, who are looking for nature, but also for recreation.'

Korteweg Maris: 'A perfect example of new construction in the right way is Waterdunen, which is now being developed. Construction here goes hand in hand with the creation of new nature. This means that new construction projects can even create nature.'

In The Other Side, a current issue is turned upside down or inside out every week.

View the original page: page 7

Graphic

 
Illustration Carolyn Ridsdale

Load Date: January 10, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")