Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The province's right to exist deserves a serious discussion; Commentary
NRC.NEXT
March 16, 2019 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION & DEBATE; Page 10
Length: 781 words
Body


ABSTRACT
State elections
COMPLETE TEXT:
The Netherlands can go to the polls next Wednesday for two of the most unknown and misunderstood levels of government in the country: the Provincial Council and the water boards. The fact that there is political excitement on the way to these elections has everything to do with a derivative of this. The members of the Provincial Council who are elected next week will in turn elect the members of the Senate at the end of May. All polls indicate that the coalition will soon no longer have a majority in the Senate. This will have a direct impact on the functioning of the cabinet.
As usual, the election campaign that is now almost over - or what must pass for it - was hardly about the Provincial Council and certainly not about the water boards. The first major election debate on television was held by the party leaders from the House of Representatives, with, among other things, the color of Zwarte Piet as a burning issue. The radio made a brave attempt to stay closer to the goal of the upcoming elections by inviting the 'list leaders' for a debate in the Senate. However, the Senate formally has no party leaders because there are no direct elections. In other words, it was all a lot of 'pretending', and that with one of the most important fundamental democratic rights.
It is telling that most parties no longer even make any effort to stick to the subject of the actual elections. The 570 members of parliament spread across the twelve Dutch provinces are once again not there by the grace of their election manifesto, but mainly because of the performance and statements of their fellow party members in The Hague.
The complaint is certainly not new. But it remains worrying that no attempt is being made to improve the democratic legitimacy of the provincial government. This also concerns the role that the province can still play as a middle government in a rapidly changing society. Because an administrative layer that is sometimes disparagingly qualified as 'wearing cartilage' or 'rusting hinge', has a problem.
Six years ago, then Minister of the Interior Ronald Plasterk (PvdA) launched a revolutionary plan. He wanted to transform the existing twelve provinces into five parts of the country. The guiding idea here was that the tasks and size of the board should be brought more into line with each other. Because since Thorbecke unfolded his blueprint for the administrative structure of the Netherlands in 1848, a lot had changed in this area. For example, the average size of municipalities had increased by a factor of 14.
Unfortunately it came to nothing. The ever powerful lobby of regional administrators skillfully torpedoed Plasterk's intentions. A year later he withdrew his plan and his proposal was placed on the impressive pile of rejected administrative redevelopment proposals. In the coalition agreement of the current cabinet, the provincial division is wisely left untouched.
The inconvenience in the elections for the Provincial Council remains that, unlike the House of Representatives or the municipal council, it is unclear to the voter whether and to what extent he can make a difference with his vote. This is even more true now that tasks from the provinces, such as youth care, have been transferred to municipalities in recent years. Nowadays, provincial tasks are mainly in the field of spatial planning. But here too, the role of the province is diminishing now that the municipalities will soon have a greater task here as a result of the Environmental Act.
In short, what political role does the province still play? "Provinces are increasingly concerned with consultation and process", is noted in the collection 'Provincial Politics' published this week. It is not really a reason to mobilize voters to go to the polls. Over the past thirty years, turnout has fluctuated. the quadrennial elections for the Provincial Council are always around 50 percent. Given the diffuse nature of the elections, that figure is actually not too bad. But that turnout has more to do with the indirect composition of the Senate than with the provinces also every reason to continue to think about the province's right to exist.
In the Commentary, NRC gives its opinion on important news events. The commentators write these articles in consultation with the editor-in-chief.
It remains unclear to the voter whether and to what extent he can make a difference with his vote
Link to PDF

Notes

In the Commentary, NRC gives its opinion on important news events. The commentators write these articles in consultation with the editor-in-chief.

Load Date: March 15, 2019, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")