Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Involve residents early in housing development
Friesch Dagblad
February 8, 2022 Tuesday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 720 words
Byline: Cor Hergaarden
Body


In the Friesch Dagblad (February 1, 2022), CDA councilor Gert van der Meijden wrote in an opinion article about the residents of Ty-tsjerksteradiel: 'Houses please, but not in my backyard'. In this way he portrays his potential voters as people who would not look beyond their own interests. This does not do justice to the involved and active citizen who often looks beyond the need to build at all costs, and sometimes to the detriment of the green environment.
His comment about 'The Warren', that only the ten local residents rebelled, is also incorrect. About 450 residents of Tytsjerksteradiel united in a legally regulated citizens' initiative to give this area an ecological and sustainable purpose.
Yes, there is also a great need for housing in Tytsjerksteradiel. But not only in Burgum. It is not correct that there are insufficient opportunities to build the allocated numbers of houses. Pointing to committed citizens who do see beyond the political nose is certainly not justified. Better to take matters into your own (political) bosom.
Own councilor
The CDA recently had an alderman who could carry out this assignment. But why would you look again and again at 'exurban' building while there are still plenty of opportunities to build within and on the edges of villages? The housing issue requires a much broader and transcending approach than the fragmented, spot-on approach with which politics bounces from confrontation to confrontation. By mainly looking to the village of Burgum to build the majority of the available contingents, politics has gotten into trouble. There are plenty of options outside Burgum and in the city center.
For example, Aldtsjerk Foarút has been working on building 24 homes in their village for over fifteen years. In Hurdegaryp there is still a large building site - It Súd - partly undeveloped and the old ideas from Dorpsbelang to expand It Súd further east have never been further explored. The old plan to build on the south side was blocked by the province at the time because 'the Bullenpolder (Blitsaerd district) had to be filled first'. And the wishes of a number of smaller villages (Sumar, Garyp and Suwâld) to build mainly for their own residents (youth and the elderly) have not been fully honored. Apparently the main village of Burgum in particular needs to grow?
People are involved
People usually feel very involved in their immediate living environment and they often have good ideas about what is possible and/or desirable in their village or immediate environment. If they are truly involved in the future of their village from the very beginning, residents can overcome direct self-interest. But it often doesn't work out that way.
For example, Van der Meijden advocates possible construction locations to be designated by the council. But one of the most important reasons for a lack of support lies in this old-fashioned way of governing: it is a top-down approach. This means that insufficient use is made of the knowledge and expertise of the citizen.
This traditional working method no longer suits the involved and assertive citizen. It is not without reason that the new environmental law refers to 'direct involvement of citizens in developing the environmental vision'. This appeals to a new administrative culture in which you first formulate what exactly the problem is, then what frameworks are set for the solution and then ask citizens with an open mind to think about the possibilities for solving the problem. This requires a modest service-oriented attitude from politicians and municipal authorities. You-baking and finger-pointing at 'rebellious citizens' who actually want to take constructive responsibility is unnecessarily polarizing.
This method of planning may take a little more time, but it often prevents a lot of hassle during implementation. Citizens' plans are often a lot more sustainable and cheaper than those of the government. But it is a different approach than the 'politics determines' approach. Citizen participation is much more than checking a box once every four years.
The traditional top-down working method no longer suits the involved and assertive citizen
Link to PDF

Load Date: February 7, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")