Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Cutbacks due to youth care shortages
Friesch Dagblad
May 29, 2021 Saturday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 308 words
Body


Continued from page 3
The municipality of Weststellingwerf also announced new cuts in the new framework memorandum yesterday due to shortages in the social domain. The municipality expects a deficit of one million euros for 2022 and subsequent years. To tackle this, the Municipal Executive wants to cut back on domestic help. This has also been cut before.
Councilor Hilde Tjeerdema (D66) of Leeuwarden emphasizes that youth care must be reimbursed on a cost-covering basis. "This gives us more room for prevention and that can ultimately lead to lower expenditure on youth care. Prevention resources such as those for the Integrated Child Centers (IKCs) are now paid from general resources, while the work falls under youth care and should be reimbursed from that pot. Then you can do more with those general resources."
Last year, Leeuwarden cut two million euros in green maintenance, traffic and sports facilities, among other things. For example, the construction of a sports field in De Zuidlanden has been canceled. If there were structurally more money for youth care, this would not have been necessary, according to Tjeerdema.
Cope with
The construction could be taken into consideration again if more money becomes available, says her colleague Hein Kuiken (PvdA). "It is a matter of first in, first out, so we could consider it again if it is financially possible, but it must first become clear what this advice actually means for Leeuwarden. Moreover, we also have a lot of work to do in other areas, for example the introduction of the Environmental Act and the energy transition. More tasks are being shifted to municipalities, but we are not getting more money to pay for it. Youth care is the most painful and eye-catching cost item."
Youth care is the most painful and eye-catching cost item

Load Date: May 28, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")