Translated(src=en, dest=en, text=






 Amsterdam is stagnating at Schiphol; Businesses? Houses!; Schiphol
 Amsterdam is stagnating on the south side; Hardly any houses are built southwest of Amsterdam: that's where Schiphol is located. How could it be possible? A search by NRC
.
NRC.NEXT
January 9, 2021 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: COVER PAGE; Page 1
Length: 3648 words
Byline: Tijs van den Boomen Photos Theo Baart
Body


ABSTRACT
Quest
The southwest flank of Amsterdam, dominated by Schiphol, is a blind spot. Due to corona, growth is less obvious for Schiphol. Can the city, desperately looking for space for housing, move in that direction?
COMPLETE TEXT:
V
From here it is less than ten kilometers to Dam Square, but the landscape looks like a cross between a declining industrial estate and the Flemish countryside. Empty greenhouses, detached houses on either side of a straight road, bumpy meadows, a lonely conifer that has outgrown its strength, garden centres, an austere sixties neighbourhood, caravan sheds, concrete slabs that once formed the access bridges to now demolished farms. And extensive parking lots, some of them brand new. Parking has potential here, as evidenced by a rental sign from an estate agent: "Schiphol parking allowed."
Welcome to the southwest flank of Amsterdam, the ugly and, above all, unknown duckling of the city. I am traveling with photographer Theo Baart, who has been photographing the adjacent Haarlemmermeer his entire working life and recently published a photo book about Greater Amsterdam. Even he has to admit that the area between Uithoorn, Aalsmeer and Amstelveen is quite strange to him.
I sometimes end up here when I want to take a shorter route home after a cycle tour of Groene Hart - I invariably get lost between the infrastructural intersections and the extensive auction complex of Aalsmeer. Architect and urban planner Kees Christiaanse calls noise landscapes the areas in the shadow of airports where normal urban development is on pause.
It is precisely here, between Schiphol and the Zuidas, that Theo Baart and I ended up in our search for growth opportunities for expanding Amsterdam. A hopeless mission?
Add a neighborhood
In the recesses between the 'noise contours' of Schiphol, there is still room for housing here and there: Amstelveen wants to add a neighborhood on the southern edge in the autumn and Uithoorn hopes to free up land for housing by moving sports fields to a location below the Aalsmeerbaan. The question is whether this will all work, because stricter noise standards will apply under the Environmental Act, which must come into effect in 2022. Aalsmeer councilor Robert van Rijn (VVD): "For Aalsmeer, housing is no longer possible on 71 percent of the territory. Now we are going to 100 percent."
It is not only stricter standards that are affecting housing construction, air traffic over this area has also increased significantly. Not only absolutely, because Schiphol was growing, but also relatively. While the total number of flights increased by 12 percent since 2007, the two runways that serve the southwest flank of Amsterdam grew by 45 percent (Aalsmeerbaan) and 22 percent (Buitenveldertbaan) respectively. That is remarkable, because both jobs are not preferred jobs.
Schiphol is well equipped with five runways; if you include the Oostbaan, which mainly serves as a backup, there are even six. London Heathrow, a bit larger than Schiphol, has to make do with two runways. The use of Schiphol's runways is not only determined by operational and meteorological factors, there is another consideration: distribution of the nuisance. By taking into account the complaints of local residents, Schiphol is trying to stifle the resistance. Sound like waste spread as much as possible - it is reminiscent of farmers who rent extra land to spread their vultures.
But the distribution strategy is reaching its limits: the number of 'seriously inconvenienced' has grown from just under 100,000 to over 160,000 in the past ten years. At the beginning of 2019, the residents' representatives therefore left the Schiphol Environmental Council. Former State Secretary Pieter van Geel (CDA), appointed as an independent advisor by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management (I and W), noted last month that the traditional polder model at Schiphol has failed.


Over the past fifteen years, the government has thrown the problems out the window: Schiphol, the region and residents had to figure out together how to divide the pain. According to Van Geel, the government must take the lead again: National and regional government must draw up a 'coherent area agenda', which also includes tasks such as sustainability and public housing. Such an agenda would be a breakthrough, because noise pollution has so far been regarded as a local problem, while it directly affects the functioning of the entire Amsterdam Metropolitan Region (MRA), which extends from Zandvoort to Lelystad.
Where can still be built?
The Netherlands has a reputation to uphold in the field of spatial planning, but in the nerve center of the Dutch economy, the planning machine is faltering. And that starts with the fact that activity is notoriously difficult to manage. Where companies establish themselves is largely an autonomous process. In Amsterdam, employment is growing mainly on the south side. In 2000, one in three jobs could be found there, in 2019 that was almost four in ten. However, only a quarter of the homes are on that side. The result is obvious: traffic jams.
Traffic engineers sounded the alarm: to keep the metropolitan region accessible, many more homes would have to be built on the south side of the city. Yet that does not happen, according to an analysis of figures from RIGO Research and Advice. Only a quarter of new homes will end up on the south side, meaning the gap in the number of jobs continues to grow. While housing construction will be more or less evenly distributed across the four directions in the coming decade, after 2030 the center of gravity of new construction will definitively shift to the east side: almost four out of every ten homes will be built there.
Daan Zandbelt, until last month Government Advisor for the Physical Environment, had research carried out into the quarter of a million homes that the Metropolitan Region will need in the next two decades. Enormous choice & incredibly close is his advice to the Ministers of Infrastructure and Water Management and of the Interior. He is opposed to plans to build at a great distance from the city, for example in Almere, and to the construction of homes on the west side of the city. The plans for Port City are "inner-city, but are outside reasonable cycling distance from the largest job concentrations in Amsterdam". Proximity is the quintessence of his advice, so he emphatically opts for the south side of the city, in the 'banana' of Schiphol. runs via the Zuidas to the Bijlmer.
When asked whether Schiphol should not make any concessions, Zandbelt is blunt: "A lot is already possible, so let's start with that." But in the longer term he does see the need to "reorganize Schiphol from strength to strength." from the south of the region".
While Zandbelt still reacts in a veiled manner for tactical reasons, the independent Commission for the Environmental Impact Assessment made no bones about it in its response to the Aviation Memorandum 2020-2050 at the end of July: insufficient attention is paid to the interests of the city. "The optimal development of the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region must be weighed against the optimal development of the airport." According to the Commission, this requires more than "the number of jobs that depend on Schiphol in the region".
Zef Hemel, professor of urban issues at the University of Amsterdam and passionate advocate of the capital, goes one step further: "Schiphol is holding the entire region hostage with its windmill blades. This not only affects Amsterdam, but leads to capital destruction for the Randstad and BV Nederland."


Erratic borders of the region
When Theo Baart and I started our research into the stagnation on the south side of Amsterdam, there was no corona yet. Schiphol was running like a charm and the thought that you could get in the way of the airport seemed absurd. That is why we initially ignored the southwest flank.
We are not spatial professionals, but as photographers and writers we have long been following how experts organize the Netherlands, and the blind spots and blind spots that arise. It is therefore not surprising that we were initially triggered by the region's irregular borders during our search for housing locations.
The Amsterdam Metropolitan Region is an arbitrarily composed administrative vehicle: the more distant Lelystad is included, but Abcoude, which borders Amsterdam, is not. Because the province of Utrecht is not participating, there is a big gap on the south side. Could that be the reason that Greater Amsterdam is not developing in that direction?
It was clear that we did not have to look at polders such as Rondehoep and De Winkel: they are sacred, no one wants to sacrifice the green lungs of the city. Instead, we focused on the Amsterdam-Utrecht railway line. Because if you can benefit from the available infrastructure somewhere, then it is there.
At the beginning of the line, in Amsterdam-Zuidoost, a real boom is currently taking place: investors are transforming the Amstel III office area into a residential area. American investor Greystar built a complex of 1,500 apartments near Amsterdam UMC. But in Abcoude, which is less than two kilometers away in the province of Utrecht, large-scale housing construction has come to an end.
From Abcoude to Breukelen, a one and a half kilometer wide strip runs between the four-track rail connection and the ten-lane highway. Why not build a few extra stations here, with residential areas attached?
We were already fantasizing about Baambrugge station, Loenersloot station and Angstelkade station, when we discovered that housing construction around Baambrugge had already been considered about ten years ago. It remained a sketch, said a senior Amsterdam official on condition of anonymity, which quickly disappeared into a drawer: "Look in the telephone book of the villages there and you will see the reason: doctors, lawyers, celebrities and other people with money. We have no chance against such a lobby."
Just when we decided to abandon our search, the corona crisis paralyzed international air traffic and the Aalsmeerbaan runway became a parking lot for aircraft. We returned to the southwest flank where you could suddenly hear birds chirping.


Fewer runways
There have been ideas for tackling the nuisance caused by Schiphol for a long time: put the runways into the sea and you will have plenty of space on land. In the early 1900s, three ministries and the aviation sector set up the Flyland program office. With a budget of more than 22 million euros, it was supposed to explore the possibilities, but the research was stopped in 2003 due to a lack of prospects. Dredgers attempted resuscitation in 2019, but the subsequent 'quick scan' by Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen (VVD) also failed. The new Aviation Memorandum does open the door to a very small crack, but the chances seem nil.
How could you create space around Schiphol? Shouldn't you take a much more modest approach, by closing some jobs? A tour of aviation experts produces curious responses - 'interesting thought', 'exciting question' - but with a name and especially a company name in the newspaper, no one wants to even argue for an investigation into this.
For a moment we seem to have a clue when a high-ranking expert says that, if he were a minister, he would want to know whether, given the trend towards smaller aircraft, "you could not manage with a much smaller runway capacity, not to mention a different layout". But he also backs down on reflection, the interconnection with the 'aviation-industrial complex', as columnist Menno Tamminga once called it in this newspaper, is great.
A few surprising insights emerge from the public investigations that exist. First of all, there is the insecurity of the current job system. According to the Dutch Safety Board, the current system with crossing runways is too complex. At the beginning of November, chairman Jeroen Dijsselbloem said after his confidential briefing to the House of Representatives: "You have to look again at the entire design of the infrastructure and the handling of flights. Schiphol's operational concept no longer works."
Insight into noise pollution is provided by the study Exploring the effects of noise and capacity when adapting the Schiphol runway system by Aviation Consultants To70, which was drawn up in 2019 on behalf of Schiphol itself. The starting point is the further growth of the airport, from the current ceiling of 500,000 flight movements to 550,000 initially and to 650,000 in the longer term. To make this possible, a second, parallel Kaag runway and a fourth north-south runway were considered. At the same time as these expansions, the effects of the closure of one or more other runways were also examined. And there, with variant 6PK-A, things get interesting.



In this variant, there will be one extra runway, namely the parallel Kaagbaan, and the Aalsmeerbaan will be taken out of use. The effects on the quality of life would be major. The number of people on the southwest flank of the Metropolitan Region who experience serious noise pollution has decreased by almost half. And the entire area will be cleared for housing development.
But, the study warns, this "will have a negative effect on Schiphol's operations" because variant 6PK-A can handle almost a quarter fewer aircraft during the peaks of takeoff. This loss of peak capacity does not mean that fewer aircraft can be accommodated. are handled, but that the transfer options are coming under pressure.
Only when you delve deeper into the report does the decrease appear to be distorted: it is calculated compared to the current track capacity, and not compared to the 9 percent higher capacity that To70 expects anyway thanks to technological developments. If you do include this efficiency gain, the capacity loss at the outgoing peak is only 14 percent and at the incoming peak 6 percent.
The devil of any research is in the assumptions. It is logical that To70 takes Schiphol's existing business operations as a starting point, but that does influence the runway capacities that are taken into account. An example. Air traffic control now decommissions a runway if there is a strong crosswind (25 knots). Not because aircraft are then unable to land, most are certified for strong winds (35 knots). This is because the captains on international flights only land their large planes themselves once a week: they no longer dare to land in strong winds. There are still gains to be made.


The parallel Kaag runway, part of variant 6PK-A, has been controversial for a long time. The discussion about the runway has always been held in the light of the expansion of Schiphol. No wonder that the environmental movement has always been a fierce opponent. Most residents' committees also turned against it, if only out of solidarity with Oegstgeest and Katwijk, where the track would cause more inconvenience, and with the village of Rijsenhout, which is an extension of the extra track and would be severely affected.
But what would the positions be if the parallel Kaagbaan runway was linked to the closure of the Aalsmeerbaan runway? Such a link will certainly reduce the pain for Rijsenhout: the new runway can be located more northeasterly, allowing aircraft to veer in front of the village. The fact that a decision is made will also help: the shadow of the reservation is currently blocking all plans, including those of the village itself to experiment with 'sound-adaptive construction'.
And what if you go one step further and link the parallel Kaagbaan runway to the shrinkage of the airport? Until the corona crisis, the use of the words shrinkage and Schiphol in the same sentence was reserved for dreamers. Expectations about the recovery of aviation now range from permanent decline to rapid recovery, but the obvious growth has taken a hit.
The climate problems caused by aviation also appear to be considerably greater than expected. The European Commission determined last November that CO2 emissions are only the tip of the iceberg: water vapor and nitrogen triple the actual climate damage. But even apart from the climate, Schiphol's growth is less obvious than it might seem, and this is due to a structural change in international air traffic.
The hub-and-spokes model is still leading: large aircraft with 400 to 600 passengers connect hubs, from there you fly on with smaller aircraft. But in recent years, these large aircraft have been replaced by smaller medium-haul aircraft, such as the Airbus A321 and the Boeing 737, which provide point-to-point connections with 150 to 200 passengers and bypass the hubs. This development is hampering the growth of Schiphol, a hub par excellence with many transfers. Should Schiphol continue to focus on bulk, or is specialization more attractive in the long term?


Unlock the southwest flank
Back to the south side of Amsterdam. Consultancy firm Berenschot, engaged by former State Secretary Van Geel for his advice on Schiphol, speaks of "the need to combine air-side measures (for example approach routes) and land-side measures (for example housing construction). Such a balanced approach, which is also supported by the Commission for the Environmental Impact Assessment is being advocated, requires a new view.
For example, based on research by Aviation Consultants To70, it is already conceivable to free up the southwest flank by closing the Aalsmeer runway and constructing a parallel Kaag runway. To70 also investigated the combined closure of the Buitenveldert and Aalsmeer runways. This is only possible if an additional runway is added: a fourth north-south runway in the space saved between the Polder and Zwanenburg runways.
This variant, the 7PK-AB, ensures the greatest reduction in noise pollution, but it appears to create little extra space for homes. According to the To70 maps, the Zuidas and the north side of Amstelveen remain gagged by aircraft noise. An important note applies here too: growth is the starting point of the study. The researchers do not dare to say what the models show in the event of shrinkage.
It is therefore interesting to turn the question around and not focus on the growth of air traffic, but on the need to free up the south side of the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region for urban development.
The stagnant commuter traffic was the starting point for our exploration, but the task goes further than just the construction of homes. The Zuidas and the adjacent Schinkel industrial estate, where the extended North/South line to Schiphol is to be located, are currently being restricted in their development by safety rules that limit the height of buildings. And in the area between Uithoorn, Aalsmeer and Amstelveen, 300 hectares of old greenhouses have been waiting for restructuring for years. This impoverished empty heart between the three municipalities offers plenty of space for a complete urban center, a South City that ensures that the area can stand on its own two feet. This makes Amsterdam less monocentric, and that is desperately needed, according to Government Advisor Daan Zandbelt.


This raises very different questions: what is needed for the Zuidas to come to fruition and to develop a new South City? What to do with the nuisance that Schiphol will always cause: spread or concentrate? What does that mean for the air corridors, which are now being tinkered with in the airspace revision in 2023? Which runway system is suitable for such a metropolis, and how many flight movements can such an airport handle?
Living and flying are conflicting interests. It is up to politicians to weigh this up. Van Geel, supported by three professors of public administration, points out that the Netherlands has gained extensive experience in solving such complex puzzles over the past thirteen years, namely with the Multi-Year Infrastructure, Space and Transport Program (MIRT).
The billions that the government invests in highways and railway lines are coordinated in the MIRT with regional decisions on residential areas, industrial estates and nature reserves. The government and the region decide together at all important junctions in the Netherlands, but things are different at the airport. The government decides on air traffic, the region then has to negotiate with the airport company about the spatial consequences.
Just like road and rail, an airport is part of 'normal public infrastructure', says Van Geel, and it is the task of the government and the region to balance the interests of Schiphol and Greater Amsterdam.
Amsterdam is short of space for housing. Can it grow around Schiphol?
In Amsterdam, employment is mainly created on the south side: in 2019, four in ten jobs could already be found there
To prevent traffic jams, many more homes must be built on the south side of the city. Yet that doesn't happen
The impoverished empty heart between Uithoorn, Aalsmeer and Amstelveen offers plenty of space for an urban center
Borders 25 km around Dam Square
The boundaries of the Amsterdam Metropolitan Area (MRA) are dictated by administrative logic, not by geographical proximity. For this article, data has therefore been collected from all municipalities in a circle of 25 kilometers around Dam Square. For example, Kaag en Braassem (province of South Holland) and De Ronde Venen (Utrecht) are included, Lelystad is not. For Amsterdam, the data is broken down by district.
Link to PDF
Link to PDF
Link to PDF
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Graphic


Undeveloped land near Schiphol, where the parallel Kaagbaan runway could be located.
A parking space for Schiphol users in Aalsmeer.
Logistics companies and data centers are expanding around Schiphol.
The Fokkerweg, with a view of the possible parallel Kaagbaan runway.
The village of Rijsenhout would suffer greatly from an extra job.
Photo Theo Baart

Load Date: February 1, 2021



