Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Continue to look critically at the pension law
Friesch Dagblad
May 22, 2023 Monday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 493 words
Body


Finally, a final blow will be given to the new pension law. It has been studied and discussed for years. Boring for the layman and tough for the negotiators involved. No political fireworks, but major interests at stake. After all, this is about 1,500 billion euros that all three and a half million pensioners and six million workers and their households will have to make ends meet with now and in the future.
How such a pension system is put together is complicated. It is about rights and securities that people pay for throughout their working lives so that they do not have financial worries in their old age. It is also about reducing differences between rich and poor. It is also about solidarity between different generations - one has been able to build up relatively quietly, the other lives in a time with fewer certainties and above it a much larger, gray generation for which healthcare costs weigh heavily on the budget.
Just to name a few things. It has been discussed for fifteen years now by successive cabinets, parliaments, interest groups and think tanks. There was great relief when a pension agreement could finally be concluded in 2019: the main parties (politics, employers, trade unions) agreed on principles and principles. This was followed by hundreds of pages of legislative explanations, hundreds of written questions from MPs, and many dozens of hours of meeting time. Rightly so, because, just like the environmental law that is still in the pipeline, it is one of the largest system changes ever. It cuts the entire mountain of pension money into individual pots. Firm promises and guarantees that are subsequently not kept are from now on out of the question. The expectation is that this will allow more to be paid out.
The House of Representatives finally agreed in December and now the final word is up to the Senate. And this weekend, two CDA prominent figures were interviewed by De Telegraaf with the message: Senate, please say no. Pieter Jan Dijkman and Arjen Siegmann of the party's scientific institute warn that the technocratic approach of the law contains too many uncertainties. Is this just as much of a coup as that of Minister Hoekstra, who wanted to break open the coalition agreement to remove the nitrogen target year of 2030? No. Siegmann expressed similar criticism months ago during his inaugural lecture. And these Christian Democrats are not themselves the drafters of the pension agreement, as Hoekstra was with the coalition agreement; they are critical observers on the sidelines. It is actually good that they continue to urge careful assessment until the last moment. The Senate must also thoroughly investigate whether this is the best possible legal text that promotes solidarity.
mainredactie@frieschdagblad.nl
Hard promises that are not kept
are henceforth made out of evil
Link to PDF

Load Date: May 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")