Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Flower sowers from Greidhoeke stand out
Friesch Dagblad
October 9, 2021 Saturday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 499 words
Byline: Richard de Boer
Body


Several Frisian initiatives listed in Sustainable 100
Húns Margaretha Posthumus from Húns thinks it is a nice recognition. Her initiative BijenFlinterLint Nij Baarderadiel is listed at number 86 in the Sustainable 100, the list of sustainable citizen initiatives that the Trouw newspaper compiles every year. And she has also been nominated for the Libelle Ster, an annual election through which the magazine honors women who are committed to sustainability.
With BijenFlinterLint, Posthumus wants to make the ryegrass landscape of the Greidhoeke more bee and butterfly friendly by sowing ecological flower seeds everywhere. "Since the start in 2016, we have sown more than fifty kilometers of roadsides," says Posthumus. "We sow as many flowers and plants as possible that also belong here in the heavy clay. For example, plants with tap roots, which can settle well here. "
Posthumus wants to increase biodiversity, but also sees it as part of her artistry: "As a beekeeper, I have a fascination for insects, but also for the roadsides. I see them as my canvas and flowers as a palette, which is constantly changing color."
In essence, BijenFlinterLint only consists of a dozen volunteers from ten villages of the former Littenseradiel, but in recent years more and more helping hands have been mobilized. Hundreds of students from primary schools in the villages helped with the sowing work. Last year, the nature trail along the Jaanfeart was sown together with the Nijkleaster Foundation from Jorwert.
Sowing by hand is quite a job, but its strength lies in its simplicity, says Posthumus. “We are down to earth, fast and flexible and will not sit around waiting for action from the municipality. We usually sow in May and June, but we have just sown 2.5 kilometers along the Boalserter Feart near Baard. That is an autumn sowing, then small plants now emerge that overwinter, and in the spring you get flowers there."
In addition to BijenFlinterLint, more sustainability initiatives from the North have been included in Trouw's Sustainable 100. High on the list at number 18 is the Freons fan fossil-free Fryslân network of project leader Bouwe de Boer, to which more than 130 Frisian companies, educational institutions and local authorities are now affiliated.
Holwerd aan Zee also has a place in the list, at number 22. The project, which wants to realize a water connection between Holwerd and the Wadden Sea, is mentioned as 'the example for the new way of working, as described in the new Environmental Act'.
High on the list, at number 7, is Land van Ons, a cooperative that buys agricultural land to use for biodiversity and organic farming. In Fryslân, Land van Ons has purchased a number of meadow plots at De Triemen and the Zwagermieden, under Kollumerzwaag, for meadow birds and grazing by Dexter cows.
We are down to earth, fast and flexible and will not wait for action from the municipality
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 20, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")