Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=After protesting, farmers visit the king
Leidsch Dagblad
November 18, 2020 Wednesday
City


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 4
Length: 754 words
Byline: From our reporters
Body


The Hague
After their protest against government measures in the city center of The Hague, demonstrating farmers drove past Huis ten Bosch, the home of King Willem-Alexander, honking loudly on Tuesday. Some farmers stuck their arms out of the tractor window to greet the king. The police secured the area around the palace.
The protest at the Koekamp in The Hague, in which hundreds of farmers took part, applied to the government's nitrogen rules. Only large farms can survive these rules, fears Frans van Kalmthout, dairy farmer with 300 cows from Rucphen in Brabant. “The costs for smaller farms are much too high. Only large farmers survive, while people do not want mega stables," said Van Kalmthout. "We are not coming to riot, we want to make ourselves heard."
The organizer of the protest, action group Farmers Defense Force, is against the new Environmental Act, with which the government wants to merge existing rules on nature, the environment and spatial planning, among other things. The farmers fear that they will lose their permits as a result. In addition, the farmers are against the government's purchasing scheme and against the nitrogen rules.
Farmers Defense Force (FDF) initially wanted to hold the demonstration at Huis ten Bosch. There the farmers wanted to hand over a petition to the king, but they did not receive permission from the municipality. The protest was moved to the Koekamp, ​​not far from the Malieveld. Shortly afterwards, a small delegation was allowed to go to the office of the so-called Cabinet of the King at the Hofvijver, to present an urgent letter there.
FDF chairman Mark van den Oever would have 'preferred that the King's Cabinet had come to the Koekamp' to receive the letter. But apart from that, he says the campaign 'went well, and I also think it is a clear statement'.
After the protest, a number of tractors drove across the adjacent Malieveld. They drove over newly sown grass towards Benoordenhoutseweg, where other tractors were parked. In the morning, some farmers had also parked their tractors on the Malieveld, while this was not allowed. The Malieveld was damaged last year by two large farmers' protests. Tractors, trucks and pick-up trucks then left deep ruts. The lawn itself had to be reseeded. The recovery was done at the expense of companies in the agricultural sector.
Quality mark
After their action in The Hague, the farmers went to the office of the Central Bureau for Food Trade (CBL), the umbrella organization of supermarkets, in Leidschendam. On Tuesday afternoon they made a demand to have supermarkets share 3 percent of their turnover with farmers. Supermarkets that respond to this can earn the FarmerFriendly quality mark. “A lot of money is made from food. It is time for a fairer distribution. Time for a better revenue model. And that starts today," said Sieta van Keimpema of the activists. FDF vice-chairman Jos Ubels compares the quality mark with the Max-Havelaar quality mark. "I cannot accept that we are doing something for farmers abroad with the Max-Havelaar quality mark, but not for Dutch farmers."
The farmers want to hear before December 10 whether the CBL will join the quality mark, so that it can be introduced in 2021. The trade association said in a response that it had had a good discussion with the protesting farmers. The agency promised to carefully study the content of the plans and consult with members, but did not make any further commitments on Tuesday afternoon.
"The CBL understands the difficult situation in which many farmers find themselves due to increasing demands from politics and society," said a statement from the umbrella organization, which itself proposes to consult with several parties in the food chain. In addition to supermarkets and farmers , these include, for example, exporters and food manufacturers.
A lot of money is made from food. It is time for a fairer distribution.
'Nothing wrong'
Nitrogen representative Esther Rommel (VVD) of North Holland believes that the government's purchase scheme is excessive in requiring that a farmer who stops his business be allowed to continue farming for nine years. “That goes against my liberal heart. You should have the freedom to continue practicing your profession, right? A farmer has done nothing wrong." They would be better off talking to the provinces, which have the resources to transform companies into nature. "We already do business with many farmers and they do not have to stop farming for the rest of their lives. "
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 17, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")