Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Builders receive a bill of 4,800 euros per home; Accessibility Developers must help pay for Leiden paths and roads
Leidsch Dagblad
May 11, 2021 Tuesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 5
Length: 585 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


Accessibility Developers must help pay for Leiden paths and roads
Project developers in Leiden will contribute to the municipality's efforts to make the city more accessible.
To lead
 Anyone who wants to build in Leiden will from now on be charged 4,800 euros per home. For offices/shops and industrial space, this amount applies per 100 and 500 square meters of surface area respectively. At least that is what the mayor and aldermen propose, the Urban Development Council Committee still has to consider it.
It is a new way to have developers contribute more directly to large projects ('suburban facilities') from which they and the future users of their buildings benefit - and which they also made necessary due to the extra traffic movements. Legally speaking, this was already possible this way, but with the Environmental Act coming into force next year and which regulates many construction matters, Leiden now decided to adjust the local rules. So far, the municipality mainly sends an invoice for the costs it incurs in developing and making construction plans possible. With the new rules, the municipality wants to make it 'more transparent and clearer' for developers, according to a spokesperson.
Cycling city
The calculation now made relates to the investments in the Leiden Ring-Noord and the Leiden Cycling City project. These projects to improve the flow of car traffic on the north side of the city and make the entire city more attractive for cyclists, together cost almost 188 million euros. Part of this is covered by subsidies and other external funds, but the municipality has to pay more than 131 million of this itself. The mayor and aldermen now want to pass on 20 percent of this (26.3 million euros) to builders.
The 4,800 euros mentioned is not a hard amount, as is evident from the accompanying 'cost recovery note' that the municipality wrote. For example, project developers do not have to pay extra for social housing or student rooms (under the liberalization limit of currently 752 euros) and they receive a discount if they build medium-priced rental (up to 1,000 euros) or owner-occupied houses below the mortgage guarantee limit. The contribution may also not lead to a project becoming unprofitable. In order to avoid unforeseen problems, the mayor and aldermen also wrote that they may always deviate from the rules 'if this is required based on reasonableness and fairness'.
The municipality asked consultancy firm Fakton to assess whether the plan will not hinder Leiden's housing construction task (approximately 6,500 homes still need to be built until 2030). The agency believes that this is only the case to a 'limited extent'. The contribution should not affect the developer's profits and only applies to projects where there is enough financial space to pay for it. There may be some initial problems in the beginning and some people want to wait and see whether older projects are affected by the new rules. But in such cases the municipality can provide customized solutions if desired.
Building Netherlands
The municipality already discussed the intention with Bouwend Nederland at the beginning of last month. According to the municipality, it has no objection to it in principle, as long as there is continued attention to a fair distribution of the costs. When asked, the trade association stated that a draft version was still on the table during that discussion and that the final proposal had yet to be studied.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 10, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")