Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Schaaf's neighbors want to sit down at the table
Friesch Dagblad
June 8, 2021 Tuesday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 294 words
Body


Local residents argue for the use of the Environmental Table
Leeuwarden The Leeuwarden municipal council opted for the Agora plan last week as a new use for Zalen Schaaf. Local residents preferred to see more living spaces in the complex, instead of the intended multifunctional center. Now that the matter has been settled, they would like to be involved in the further development of the Agora plan, in the spirit of the new Environmental Act.
Local residents wrote in a letter to the municipal executive and the council that they wanted to be involved in the development of the Agora plan through a kind of Environmental Table. Environmental tables are part of the new Environmental Act, which will not come into effect until the middle of next year at the earliest.
Leeuwarden first applies the Environmental Act only in the rural area in the south of the municipality, around Wergea, among others. The north and the city, where Zalen Schaaf is located, will only be discussed later, but those around them would prefer to be involved in the development of the Agora plan in a similar way.
Support needed
In the Environmental Act, it is important, among other things, that there is sufficient support for new spatial plans. After last Wednesday's council meeting, there is finally a prospect of a new use for the former music theater after ten years. The Agora plan wants to offer this location generously to various organizations, including the youth meeting center Jimmy's and the Asteriks music venue.
Local residents would have preferred that the Leeuwarden municipal council had opted for redevelopment of the complex. This plan was also preferred by the jury that judged the competition for the new design of Schaaf. The Municipal Executive was also in favor of this, but Agora was the 'least bad' option for a majority in the council.

Load Date: June 7, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")