Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The day of
Leidsch Dagblad
October 12, 2019 Saturday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2019 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 004
Length: 550 words
Body


  Would you like to come with me for a moment? Back in time two days to last Thursday; that autumnal tenth of October. Did you know that October 10th was the day of the Environmental Act?
 Probably not. And also the International Day against the Death Penalty. As well as International Mental Health Day. It was also the Dutch day of the freelancer, day of visibility, day of the payroll professional, (Does every professional group have a day? Day of the YouTubers? Day of the pawnbroker? I know that chip bakers have a day; every Friday. For the children in the Tinga house.) It was also World Homeless Day. It was also a typical Dutch day with high cumulus clouds and a strong southwesterly - ideal kitesurfing weather - but I had to suppress that screaming unrest that day because it was also Sustainability Day. That morning I was in Groningen for students, that afternoon in the municipality of Hoeksche Waard for entrepreneurs and in Amsterdam for the presentation of the sustainable top 100. I crossed the Netherlands in the yellow steel NS caterpillar, I slid between green meadows and under white cumulus clouds. . That day I saw hundreds of people working on sustainability. Now I ask you: what did you notice about sustainability day? What is the result of such a day full of good intentions? What actually remains of the presentations, the pledges, the group photos? If you're cynical, the morning after 'The Day of' is nothing more than the evening before 'The Day of'. Attention is a mysterious phenomenon. What you pay attention to grows. It strengthens and connects. Not hard and tangible or visible from the outside, but attention does take up space. Space in the newspaper, space on your screen, space in your prefrontal lobe - if that is the place where the synapses forge new connections on this subject. In the box next to what payroll professionals actually do. In Groningen I had discussions about disposable paper cups; coffee cups that may be better than washing earthenware in the calculations at the bottom of the Excel sheet, but which do support a disposable culture. With the entrepreneurs - how I love doers! - that afternoon we talked about how you can make money from sustainability. Or how you could lose it if you didn't do it. In Amsterdam I saw how my partner-in-crime Dirk 'Zwerfinator' Groot became the new number 1 of the renowned Trouw Sustainable Top 100. This year for the first time a list of only citizen initiatives. (If you are wondering how high I ended up on that list, I didn't - I took a place among the ten-member jury.) With Dirk as the new number 1, the subject of litter and the approach to tackling it by collecting data is guaranteed. in the spotlight for another year. In that sense, such a 'day of' is a bit like a wedding. With a lot of fanfare, a connection is made with a lot of witnesses around it. Something to think about if you get divorced again later. Apparently that's how it works inside our heads. Such a day draws attention away from all those other important issues such as the homeless, death penalty, mental health care, Environmental Act and payrolling. That attention pushes other things away. Like the unrest when the wind blows.

Load Date: October 11, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")