Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The bat has its own housing crisis with us
de Volkskrant
January 9, 2024 Tuesday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 16
Length: 501 words
Byline: HANS VAN DER Meer
Highlight: Over the last two decades, humans have begun to examine their environment more closely, out of increasing concern for nature. In a short series, Hans van der Meer follows the world of measuring and monitoring in the Netherlands. Episode 12: the bat box
Body


The measuring person: Oisterwijk
Are they there? If so, how much? What kind? And what do they use the cupboard for? For example, do they have young ones or not? Monitoring bat boxes revolves around these four questions. You can see the animals by shining a strong flashlight from the bottom of the cupboard.

There is one copy in this bat box. A little later, Jos Marcelissen, former coordinator of the North Brabant Bat Reporting Network, points his telephoto lens at the slit-shaped opening at the bottom of the cupboard. The role of the flashlight is now taken over by the flash device on his camera, otherwise there would be no bat visible in the darkness in his photos.

The inhabitant of the box turns out to be a pipistrelle bat, a common species. They eat about a thousand insects per night and are important for ecosystems. These originally rock dwellers came here from the time we started building houses. For pipistrelle bats, there is little difference between a rock and a house.

There is also a shortage of housing for these residents of our country. Due to the demolition of old buildings and insulation of homes, many rest areas have disappeared in cavity walls. The Environmental Act therefore recommends nature-inclusive measures for bats in new construction.

By measuring and monitoring, we try to get a grip on developments that are harmful to nature, which we usually cause ourselves. When asking how we can prevent these developments, we regularly encounter dilemmas, including in the forests of Oisterwijk.

Marcelissen: 'There are quite a few American oaks here and they are exotic. They were brought to Europe as ornamental trees in the 19th century. The credo of the nature movement - let me say very broadly - is: get exotics out of the country. But do you know what some bat species prefer? In cavities of American oaks! If we clear out those American oaks, we will lose a lot of bat roosts.”

Fortunately, Natuurmonumenten in the forests near Oisterwijk leaves the American oaks with such a cavity in peace. But not the rest. To prevent them from dominating the area, they are cut down.

Resting places for bats also often disappear when buildings are demolished. To provide replacement living space, these types of cabinets are hung as compensation. Not only here, but also in many other places in our country.

When granting permits, hanging cabinets is a mandatory condition under the Nature Conservation Act. This includes a monitoring obligation, sometimes temporary and sometimes long-term. But Jos Marcelissen has a comment: 'The monitoring obligation is not always carried out. And if measures are not monitored, no one knows what the effect will be.'

On behalf of our native bats, I therefore pose the question to the competent authorities: is monitoring being done or is it being monitored?
Watch the previous episodes online: volkkrant.nl/metendemens

View the original page: page 16

Load Date: January 8, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")