Translated(src=en, dest=en, text=






The Law of All or Nothing
de Volkskrant
February 12, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Saturday; Page 6, 7, 8, 9
Length: 4126 words
Byline: MAC VAN DINTHER
Highlight: From a shed to an industrial estate or a forest: under the Environmental Act, everything goes through one counter. The new spatial planning law promises fewer rules and more flexibility. But why has its implementation been postponed for the fifth time?
Body


environmental code
Anyone who thinks that new-build areas in the Netherlands are a uniform affair of terraced houses, sunny houses and raked yards should visit Oosterwold. Here, in the rural area between Almere and Zeewolde, the houses are almost haphazardly mixed together. It is also a mixed bag.

Thatched farmhouses and retro mansions rub shoulders with ultra-modern bungalows made of black stone or bright yellow corrugated iron. Hobbit-like tiny houses alternate with homes made of stacked shipping containers, spacious villas and houses made of demolished wood.

What applies to the houses also applies to the street pattern. In one place there is smooth asphalt, a little further on there are bumpy cobblestones. Sometimes straight, sometimes wriggling like a drunken snake. "Some people call it Belgian situations," laughs municipal project leader Sander van den Broek. 'Here you see what you get when you give residents freedom.' Because that is the idea behind Oosterwold: in this piece of polder, residents decide for themselves what their neighborhood looks like.

Oosterwold is an example project of the Environment Act, the new spatial planning law. There's a good chance you've never heard of this law, because remarkably little has been written about it in recent years. That is unjustified, because the law determines what the Netherlands will look like in the coming years. The Environmental Act must become a Law of Everything for spatial planning: 26 laws, 60 General Administrative Orders and 75 ministerial regulations are all brought together in it.

From converting a shed to the construction of an industrial estate, from a permit for felling a single tree to planting a forest: everything will soon be handled through the Environmental Act counter. It is not without reason that Prime Minister Rutte called this 'the largest legislative operation since the renewal of the Constitution'. That was in 1848.

The fact that so little has been written about the Environmental Act is probably because legislation is a boring and difficult process; the law has been tinkered with for more than ten years. Less sexy than a riot in The Hague, less urgent than the opening of the nightclubs. It also has to do with the fact that the debate about spatial planning has largely died down over the past ten years, based on the idea that the country is more or less 'finished'. Nothing turns out to be further from the truth.
Smart combinations
The Netherlands faces major challenges - 'challenges' in official jargon. A million houses need to be built, space is needed for wind turbines and solar parks. We must plant forests to combat global warming, create additional nature for biodiversity and make agriculture more sustainable. In a small and crowded country this inevitably leads to conflicts. This is the fight for scarce land that is now in full swing.

The panacea that the Environmental Act has devised for this purpose is integrality. Instead of allowing one interest to prevail over a piece of land, it should be possible to make trade-offs that serve multiple interests simultaneously; maybe not completely, but at least partially. And who, the thinking goes, can do this better than the parties with their feet in the mud: municipalities, citizens and companies?

The Environmental Act is one of the best legislative operations since the Second World War, says Geert Teisman, professor of public administration at Erasmus University and specialized in complex issues. His motto: if you can't figure it out, make it more complex. The decision-making about the organization of the Netherlands is now completely compartmentalized, says Teisman. This goes from top to bottom: from ministries to councilor offices and provincial departments. One person wants to build, another wants to plant trees, the third wants to build a solar park. Everyone fights for their own skin. And only one can get his way. "Then you know: that's not going to work out for him," says Teisman. 'If everyone wants to get what they ask for, we will be short an entire province.'

It can also be done differently, Teisman argues. 'Why don't we look for solutions that do justice to multiple interests? Are there combinations possible so that we can do more with less space? Can you think of concepts that combine living and nature or energy? Can you live in windmills? I just say something. The funny thing is: no one is working on that now. Because it's no one's responsibility.'


The Environmental Act does create that space, according to the professor. This gives municipalities the freedom to weigh up interests and play with them: living in nature, houses close to companies: if rules stand in the way of this, they can be bent a little. 'There is a real effort towards integration, which appeals to me enormously.'

Almere is already working in that spirit. For example, residents of Oosterwold are obliged to earmark half of their plot for urban agriculture. This can be done by using a piece of private land or by jointly designating a plot with the entire street and leasing it to a farmer. That rule applies to everyone, project leader Van den Broek emphasizes. This also applies to supermarket chain Lidl, which has built a CO2 and energy neutral supermarket there, complete with solar panels, a picking garden, bee hotels and ponds to collect rainwater.

So far, most residents have opted to do it themselves. Every garden contains something agricultural: a vegetable garden, a greenhouse, a row of fruit trees or a patch of vineyard. The requirement is that it must go beyond hobby gardening: it must add something to the regional food supply.

"We do not set that standard for nothing," emphasizes responsible councilor Maaike Veeningen (D66). But the question remains how they will check that. Strict enforcement goes against Oosterwold's do-it-yourself mentality. "We're still working on that." This way of working is a cultural change for municipalities, says Veeningen. Normally the government regulates much of the spatial planning from above. 'Now we leave it to the people themselves. That is exciting.' There is enough enthusiasm. There are now a thousand houses in Oosterwold, there is room for more.
Not everyone is enthusiastic
Integrated working, bottom-up planning: not everyone is equally enthusiastic about this. It is gushing policy prose that is intended to conceal the real cause of the problem, says landscape architect and planner Herman Weelink. 'Namely that there is a total lack of vision at national level about the organization of the Netherlands.'

Spatial planning as a coherent model for the organization of the country has in fact been abolished with the Environmental Act, says Weelink. 'It is solved by delegating it to lower authorities. Spatial planning is being replaced by aldermanic planning.'

While the Netherlands has such a rich and internationally renowned tradition in planning. In the last century, four spatial planning memorandums were published, which served as guidelines for policy. Vinex neighborhoods, the development of main ports such as the port of Rotterdam and Schiphol, the maintenance of the Green Heart: these are all consequences of centrally coordinated policy.

The Environmental Act is 'betraying' its old field of expertise, Weelink complains. Ten years ago, when the law was written, decentralization was still in vogue. Everything had to be delegated: social assistance, youth care. This has now been reversed: the government is tightening the reins in many areas. Recently, calls for central management have also become more frequent and louder in urban planning. The Netherlands even has a minister for this again in the new cabinet: Hugo de Jonge. 'And then, par excellence, on such a subject of national importance, it is said: let municipalities do it,' says Weelink. 'But vision is more than the sum of 350 municipalities.'

According to him, we recently saw a foretaste of what this can lead to with the establishment of a data center of Meta, the parent company of Facebook, in Zeewolde. 'The municipal council took a decision there that actually belongs to the central government. But you see it happening everywhere: proliferation of wind turbines and solar parks, the space along highways is being filled up with boxes.'Not that there is no vision at all. There is also one behind the Environmental Act: the National Environmental Vision, abbreviated to Novi. It is full of beautiful sentences and views. But unlike its predecessors, the Novi has not been democratically established by parliament and legally anchored, says Weelink. 'It is a non-binding piece.'

That won't get you far in court, agrees Fred Kistenkas, associate professor of environmental law in Wageningen and another critic of the Environmental Act. According to him, the integrated consideration that this system change suggests is not legally possible at all.

The Netherlands is bound by European rules in the field of nature, water and air quality. 'These have been determined sector-by-sector, with strict legal standards. But now policy documents give the impression that you can deviate from this as a municipality.'

The old environmental law, Kistenkas explains, was based on the principle 'no, unless': in principle you were not allowed to build where there was nature and you were not allowed to start a business in a forest. 'The policy intentions surrounding the Environmental Act now suggest a 'yes, provided': in principle everything is allowed, under conditions.' That makes a big difference, says the Wageningen lawyer. 'If municipalities now think that they are allowed to make integrated considerations, you will know in advance which interests will be 'weighed in'. These are soft values ​​such as nature and biodiversity.'

Kistenkas recently came across a remarkable parallel: for years New Zealand was the only other country in the Western world to have an Everything Act such as the Environmental Act. 'They want to get rid of that, because it doesn't work. New Zealand wants to return to separate environmental laws and sectoral assessments.'

It is criticism that is widely shared in the world of planners. "The Environmental Act dates from a completely different era," responds Wouter Veldhuis, government advisor for the physical living environment. 'You may wonder whether this law is the appropriate instrument to provide an adequate response to the challenges we are now facing.'
Effortlessly accepted
In retrospect, it is remarkable that the Environmental Act was passed through parliament without much fuss. This involved some political acrobatics, says Friso de Zeeuw, former professor of area development, alderman, deputy and today, as an independent advisor, still an influential voice in planning.

The first ideas for the Environmental Act came from VVD minister Melanie Schultz and were born during the aftermath of the financial crisis, when the economy had to be put back on track. The motto was fewer rules, more flexibility, 'building with one piece of paper': 'Real VVD wishes', according to De Zeeuw.

That was also the text with which Prime Minister Rutte praised the law in March 2012 after it had been approved by the council of ministers of his first cabinet. "We have all created too many rules," the prime minister wrote on his Facebook page. 'The Environmental Act puts a bold stop to this. More room for personal initiative, entrepreneurship and innovation through fewer rules. That is good news for the Netherlands.'

Since then, the law has passed through a series of ministers, with more and more demands and desires being added, including in the field of sustainability, to appease the opposition. As a result, everyone got their money's worth, according to De Zeeuw. 'This created a wonderful coalition that ensured that the law received broad support.'

During debates about the law in the House of Representatives, there was only some sputtering. GroenLinks was concerned about nature, the PVV was afraid that the government could push through the back door to push through the construction of mosques, asylum seekers' centers and wind farms, and the SP feared arbitrariness if municipalities started to apply their own standards.

They were ripples on a smooth pond: the law was passed with an overwhelming majority. A shameful display for such an important subject, says planner Weelink. 'There has hardly been a proper debate about it. That's because no one in the House of Representatives knows anything about spatial planning anymore.'

The House of Representatives agreed in 2015, and a year later the Senate also gave its approval. We are now waiting for a decision on the implementation date. In anticipation of this, experiments with the law are being conducted in all kinds of places. The ship has already been released from shore, says public administration expert Teisman. 'This process has been going on for ten years. The entry into force is not the starting point, but the final step.'


He is not impressed by the criticism. He finds the call for central management strange: as if the recent past has proven that everything goes better when the government takes control. "You only have to look at the benefits affair to know that that is not the case."

“When people ask for direction, they often mean the Clint Eastwood model,” says Teisman. 'Where the director is also the leading actor. I'm more of the Tarantino model: the director who ensures that others play better.'
De Binckhorst
“Look,” says Claudia Carelse, pointing to a construction site in The Hague where a concrete frame is rising. 'There will be an apartment complex here with business premises at the bottom.' It is not the first place where you would expect housing development, in a street with mainly activity: a printing house, car workshops, a glass shop. But it is possible in the Binckhorst, an old industrial estate wedged between the railway and the Trekvliet. Carelse is one of the project managers.

Here, just like in Almere, the Environmental Act is already being put into practice. There have been plans for years to use this area, close to the city, for housing. A zoning plan was ready in 2009. The financial crisis drew a line through that; the plan was withdrawn.

Now, with the Environmental Act in hand, a new approach has been chosen. It's called 'organic development'. The idea, explains planning lawyer Maayke Houtman, is that initiatives come from the neighborhood itself and that housing construction is possible in combination with companies. Anyone who comes up with a plan is welcome, says Houtman. On one condition: 'That people adapt to the neighborhood.'

In concrete terms, this means that if someone has a plan for housing construction close to a company, he or she enters into discussions with that company. 'For example, if the company is experiencing noise and odor pollution, the parties can look together at what they can do about it.' Such as taking measures to reduce taxes or creating a green buffer.

Something called 'netting' is also possible: a project developer who wants to build higher than the standard allows, can compensate for this with additional sustainability measures, such as a park or solar panels on the roof.

Initially, companies reacted hesitantly, says Houtman. "They were afraid that new residents would complain." There is now more enthusiasm. Start-ups such as a beer brewery and a manufacturer of aluminum card holders have recently established themselves in Binckhorst. The Caballero factory from the 1950s is now a 'creative hotspot'.

There was great enthusiasm among house builders: the space of five thousand homes available in the environmental plan has already been completely reserved or permitted, according to Houtman. 'In the long term we think there is room for more.'

The basic principle is that the Binckhorst must remain a mixed area, with both housing and businesses, says Carelse during a walk past car garages and the concrete plant. 'We want to keep the rough edges. That gives the area its charm.' That combination was excluded under the old zoning plan, where all companies were relocated. 'We wouldn't have been able to do this without the new Environmental Act.'

It is a matter of a lot of consultation, puzzling and looking for solutions, says Carelse. 'That makes working here fun. In the past, someone at city hall made the decision. Now you have to figure it out together.'

A catch in the grass
Broad parliamentary support, enthusiastic projects: what is holding back the new Environmental Act? There is a big snake in the grass, with vicious fangs.

For the law to work, an extensive IT system is needed: the Digital System for the Environment Act, or DSO for short. The costs of introducing this system, including all software that municipalities must purchase for it, are estimated at 1.5 to 1.8 billion euros.

In the DSO, the map layers of all authorities involved in planning must be superimposed: municipalities and central government, but also provinces, water boards, the land registry and Rijkswaterstaat. In this way, the submitter of a project should be able to see what is going on in an area at the touch of a button.

The Environmental Act has been stuck on this for years. The introduction has already been postponed four times. On July 1 this year the time would finally come. There was a fifth postponement last week: Minister De Jonge, who called the Environment Act in the House of Representatives a 'blessing for humanity', has decided to move the implementation date to October 1, 2022 or January 1, 2023. The reason for this is major problems with the technology behind the DSO: it still falters in crucial parts.

There are reassuring words about this from the new Ministry of Housing and Spatial Planning. 90 percent of the municipalities are already connected to the new system, says Arco Groothedde, DSO project leader. Which does not mean that they work with it. 'We are taking action on the handful of stragglers.'

According to Groothedde, many municipalities are on hold. 'They want to start.' As far as the ministry is concerned, the system is ready, Groothedde emphasizes. 'Will it go smoothly? No. Will we encounter anything else? Certainly, but that is normal for such a large project. We're going to fix that.'

But very different voices are coming from the field. The DSO was twice, in 2017 and 2020, the target of a critical report by the ICT Testing Bureau (BIT), which monitors government ICT projects. The functionalities of the DSO have become more complicated than intended, the BIT wrote in 2017. This will lead to problems 'and the question is whether they will ever all work as intended'.

Three years later there had been some improvement, but not enough. Crucial parts of the DSO are not yet finished, the BIT wrote at the end of 2020. The system has 'not yet been sufficiently tested to be able to rely on the fact that the DSO as a whole is workable and manageable'. According to the BIT, even after it comes into effect, it will take 'at least a few more years' to further develop the system in steps.

Criticism was also widespread at two expert meetings of users, design agencies and software suppliers that the Senate convened at the end of last year. One of the speakers was Koos Serden, director of Rho Adviseurs, which helps municipalities make plans. 'We are the largest zoning farmer in the Netherlands.'

The DSO is far from ready for use, according to Serden. 'The software is brand new. We haven't had much time to practice with it yet, the bugs haven't been worked out yet.' Serden estimates that there are currently thirty people in the Netherlands who can get by with the system. 'But when the law comes into force, thousands of civil servants should be able to work with it. They all still need to be trained.'

And while agencies like his are already running out of money. 'We are busy working on plans for wind turbines, nitrogen and construction projects. There is a desperate shortage of people.' It is evident that the introduction of a new system threatens to delay ongoing housing construction projects, according to Serden. 'You don't need to have studied higher mathematics for that.'

Lieuwe Koopmans of Tercera, major supplier of planning software to municipalities and provinces, is even more negative. 'This system will never work. It's far too complex.' People have been warning about this for years, Koopmans emphasizes. "But the ministry never really did anything about that criticism." He's slowly getting quite angry about that. 'They put on a good news show at the ministry. But they don't understand it.'

According to Koopmans, one of the problems is that the standards within the DSO are formulated too broadly. As a result, software agencies that work for municipalities, provinces and water boards have developed their own 'dialects'. If they come together in one system, they do not understand each other, so they cannot exchange data.

'Then everything shuts down. And that's just one example. The whole system is simply wrong.' He calls nonsense that the DSO can be adjusted in a working manner, as the ministry suggests. "You're not going to drive a car that isn't finished yet, are you?"

Municipalities are struggling with this. The software now gives error messages all the time, says André Putker, program manager of the physical living environment in Oude IJsselstreek. 'The agreement was that we would have a year to practice with the DSO. But that is not the case nine times out of ten.' Putker asked around with colleagues in other municipalities. "They share my concerns." In the meantime, they are being overwhelmed by requests from people who want to quickly submit their plans under the old law.

Doubts are also enormous in the Senate, according to a laundry list of 33 pages with questions that the senators sent to the minister at the end of January. At the request of the Senate, the functioning of the DSO is being investigated again by the ICT Advisory Committee, the successor to the BIT. That is expected in mid-February.
Support is crumbling
Last week, De Jonge opted for his money by postponing the introduction of the law again. That decision was made after a hastily convened video conference with the software suppliers involved. This included harsh criticism of the technology behind the DSO, which, according to the software makers, is not stable, not well standardized and far too complex. One of those involved said that he had 'never experienced such a poorly managed project'.

You would say that a law that has been in the works for ten years could still tolerate a six-month delay. Yet this is not without danger, warns former professor De Zeeuw, who calls himself a moderate supporter of the law. "I'm not in favor of jumping on the bench, but I do think the law is useful." Criticism of the law is becoming increasingly louder, he notes. 'Another postponement will reduce support. Then you might get to the point where you say that we need to reconsider. As far as I'm concerned, that should have happened much earlier.'

It is remarkable that in the new coalition agreement the Environmental Act is only mentioned once: in a subordinate sentence about the transition of agriculture. That doesn't have to mean anything, De Zeeuw emphasizes. 'But it could also be that people are taking a hit.

'If it becomes a mess, Hugo de Jonge will be held accountable. So he will look carefully at the risks associated with implementation.' De Jonge also knows that as a minister he will mainly be judged on how many houses he builds, not on whether he manages to get a law from his predecessors through the Senate.

If the minister is wise, he will cancel the entire project, says Jan Struiksma, emeritus professor of administrative law, specialized in environmental law. Struiksma, also one of the experts questioned by the Senate, had been critical for some time. He now unequivocally advocates cancellation. Struiksma predicts a 'drama' if the law, including the DSO, is introduced. According to him, the technology is still miles away from a working system. The technical complications have become so great that they require enormous efforts to resolve them, he warns.

As far as public administration expert Teisman is concerned, cancellation would be 'the disgrace of the century'. Things will go wrong, he acknowledges. 'But doing nothing is not an option. A major transition also involves mistakes. I can't imagine the whole process being called off. But things happen all the time that I can't imagine.'

Municipal official Putker knows where his priorities lie: 'I would rather spend my time solving the housing shortage than in a non-functioning system.'
The vision behind the Environmental Act is full of beautiful sentences and visions, but is not legally anchored. 'It is a non-binding piece'
In a video conference with software suppliers, one of those involved said he had "never experienced such a poorly managed project before"

View the original page: page 6, page 7, page 8, page 9

Load Date: February 11, 2022


, pronunciation=

