Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=More expensive cigarettes, later retirement; 2024
 New rules: excise taxes, vaping and surnames
NRC
December 29, 2023 Friday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: COVER PAGE; Page 1
Length: 520 words
Byline: Rein Wieringa
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
Taxes and regulations
A series of new rules will apply from Monday. Taxes and benefits shift, regulations expire, laws come into effect.
COMPLETE TEXT:
New regulations, laws and rates will come into effect on January 1. An overview of the most important changes.
Education
Schools have received "urgent advice" from the Ministry of Education to ban telephones from January 1. How exactly they do this is up to the schools themselves.
From next year, students can receive a supplementary grant if their parents together earn a maximum of around 70,000 euros per year, higher than the current limit of more than 50,000 euros. The amounts of student financing are also increasing.
The interest on student debt increases from 0.46 percent to 2.56 percent. The House of Representatives wants the 'unlucky generation' that did not receive a basic grant not to have to pay higher interest.
Smoking and drinking
E-cigarettes should no longer taste like blueberry, strawberry ice cream or mojito. Only the 'tobacco' flavor will be allowed from next year.
The tax on soft drinks, low-alcohol beer and fruit juice will increase from 9 to 26 cents per liter, while the tax on mineral water will disappear. The excise duty on alcoholic beverages will increase by 8.4 percent. As a result, a case of beer will cost an average of 50 cents more. Smoking is also becoming considerably more expensive: a pack of cigarettes goes from an average of 9 to 11.10 euros, rolling tobacco from 17 to 24.62 euros.
Pensions, wages and benefits
When the final chord of 'Bohemian Rhapsody' sounds on the radio, the state pension age rises by two months to 67 years. Employees between the ages of 18 and 21 already start accruing pension, previously this was often 21 years old.
From now on, the minimum wage will always be calculated per hour. Because the minimum wage was based on a 36-hour working week, hundreds of thousands of people who work 40 hours are expected to improve.
The minimum hourly wage itself increases from 12.79 euros to 13.27 euros per hour. All kinds of benefits are increasing.
All allowances will increase, except for the healthcare allowance, which will decrease because this year's temporary increase will expire. The energy surcharge and the price ceiling will also disappear.
environmental code
The Environmental Act will come into effect on Monday, after years of delay. This mega law must bundle all kinds of different rules about the living environment. Citizens who want to request information or apply for a permit for a dormer window, for example, can do so at a new digital counter. But a "significant part" of municipalities are not yet ready to switch to the new ICT system, spokespeople for the Interior and the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) told the ANP news agency earlier this month.
Plastic
The disposable cup in the office will be a thing of the past in a few days. Entrepreneurs are also no longer allowed to give cups or containers with plastic in them to customers who eat their food on the spot. If they do, there is little chance that they will experience any problems as a result. The Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate does not always enforce the rules.
The tax on soft drinks, low-alcohol beer and fruit juice will increase
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Load Date: December 28, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")