Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Energy transition is stagnating, but 'remains feasible'
Leidsch Dagblad
December 9, 2022 Friday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 6
Length: 487 words
Byline: Anne de Vries
Body


The Hague
Municipalities, which will have a major challenge to generate sustainable energy in the coming years, have fewer and fewer solar and wind projects in the pipeline. The Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency remains as positive as ever: "The target of 35 terawatt hours remains feasible."
According to the analysis of the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency (PBL), no new projects have been added. There are several reasons why municipalities are now waiting to take action, Jan Matthijsen of the PBL said during a press conference on Thursday.
For example, in some regions there is a lot of resistance to possible locations for solar fields or wind farms, for example. There is also a shortage of materials and personnel and new councilors have been appointed after the municipal elections, who bring with them different ideas about existing plans.
Another major obstacle is the overload of the electricity network, according to the PBL. There are, among other things, too few cables and electricity stations. Moreover, a stable network requires both solar and wind energy, but many municipalities prefer the sun to a wind turbine in their own backyard.
Adjust
The Netherlands must be able to generate thirty-five terawatt hours of sustainable energy itself by 2030. All new electricity must then come from renewable sources such as sun or wind. The country is divided into thirty regions to guide this energy transition as closely as possible. While these regions enthusiastically submitted a bid in 2021 that added up to more than fifty terawatt hours, the PBL had to adjust expectations downwards.
According to Mathijssen, some regions find it slightly easier to set up sustainable energy projects - such as Flevoland and North and South Holland, because there is already experience with energy from onshore wind, among other things. But in all provinces, municipalities have a lot to choose from with housing construction, nitrogen problems and an uncertain environmental law, which hinders the energy transition.
However, the National Regional Energy Strategy Program, the umbrella body that monitors all regions, is also positive. The thirty-five terawatt hours is 'certainly feasible', director Kristel Lammers emphasizes, if permits are granted for all intended projects in 2025.
Tensions
This requires a collective effort. 'Joint' is the biggest challenge for some regions, because sustainable energy plans also cause tensions. Where one municipality likes wind turbines, another cannot consider it.
In North Holland there is a greater appetite for sun than wind, which can make the electricity network unstable, and the Holland Rijnland region is considering missing the 2025 deadline because the municipalities cannot agree on 'the ambitions' of the region.
Municipalities are struggling with resistance
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 8, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")