Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Extra green in budget
Leidsch Dagblad
November 12, 2022 Saturday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 627 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


To lead
 Leiden's green and sustainability policy was significantly supplemented during the budget discussion on Thursday night. Seven of the nine adopted plans come from the Party for the Animals, from the opposition.
The Party for the Animals has four seats in the Leiden opposition, but based on Thursday's municipal meeting, the party could just as well be sitting at the council table. She received a majority for all but one of her plans. And that proposal - to turn off the lighting of monuments after 10 p.m. for the sake of animals - has not been rejected but postponed pending a support study.
Green Councilor Ashley North (GroenLinks) is not in favor of it: "It is not without reason that we have had an Illuminati memorandum since 2016 and have invested heavily in it. If we now go from 00:00 to 22:00, you can speak of capital destruction. The effect is not that great, because the street lighting is still there."
Sidewalk plants
Some other proposals are not very drastic or expensive, which simplified their acceptance. There was unanimous support for three. This concerns, firstly, the request to draw up a plan that ensures that sufficient social facilities, greenery and sports always remain available in the neighborhood, even with additional housing construction. Secondly, the request to use nature-inclusive construction as a criterion when choosing developers - whereby it should be noted that, according to Alderman North, the municipality is already doing this, even though it can only formally become a rule when the new Environmental Act comes into effect. Finally, the entire city council agreed to clearly split the objective of promoting 'biodiversity and animal welfare' into two separate objectives from now on.
From now on, sidewalk plants will have more space in the city. There have been quite a few more of these in recent years because the municipality has cut back on maintenance, but it has become apparent that Leiden residents appreciate them. It has now been decided, on a trial basis, to leave these types of spontaneously emerging plants along facades alone when the municipal weed controllers visit. At North's request, the PvdD adjusted the proposal slightly: the city center is excluded from this.
Furthermore, at the initiative of the party, Leiden will now pay more attention to textiles in its waste policy, lawns and public gardens will receive more herbs and flowers, and the municipality will increase the focus on healthy food and a healthy lifestyle. There will also be a campaign to encourage entrepreneurs to keep their doors closed to save energy (they will be given signs to point this out), to turn off lights after closing time and to refrain from using patio heaters.
Together with the VVD, the PvdD submitted a proposal to make climate-adaptive parking spaces an inseparable part of the plans for greening districts and neighborhoods.
Movable greenery
PvdA, GroenLinks, D66 and SvL also joined forces to conduct a trial with 'movable greenery' on Arsenaalplein. The idea behind this is to give petrified parts of the city where permanent greening is impossible due to activities and events a green appearance in the intervening periods with plant, tree and vegetable garden containers. The PvdD (and PS) voted against this. The party describes this as 'shame green'.
Flower parade
Much against the wishes of the PvdD, the city council agreed to send councilor Fleur Spijker (D66) to talk to the board of the Rhineland flower parade to see what the possibilities are for having it run through Leiden again in future. "Bees are dying because of those poisonous hyacinths," said councilor Lianne Raat.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 12, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")