Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Extra youth care money does not help enough'
Friesch Dagblad
May 29, 2021 Saturday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 523 words
Body


Need for cutbacks in many areas
Blokhuis expects to be able to provide clarity in the short term
Leeuwarden One fewer sports field and more sober domestic help. In many municipalities, the high costs of youth care indirectly lead to cuts in other places. If the government follows the arbitration committee's decision to pump billions more into youth care, this will provide additional breathing space. But municipalities have more concerns. The subscription rate for the WMO and the introduction of the Environmental Act also entail additional costs.
Municipalities are enthusiastic about the advice of the arbitration committee to invest billions more in youth care in the coming years, but they are also cautious. "It is good news," says finance alderman Harjan Bruining (CDA) of Achtkarspelen. "But it also says something about the government's willingness to tackle the problems in youth care if such a heavy remedy as an arbitration committee must be involved to take action."
Important advice
The committee recommended investing an additional 1.9 billion in youth care next year and 1.6 billion in the two years after that. The committee came to this conclusion in a case initiated by the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG). State Secretary Paul Blokhuis (Christian Union) of Health, Welfare and Sport yesterday called the committee's statement 'weighty advice' in a response to the NOS. Blokhuis expects to be able to provide clarity in the short term about what the government will do with the advice.
The high costs of youth care have led to financial shortages in many municipalities. In Fryslân, six of the eighteen municipalities do not have a balanced budget for this year, including the collaborating municipalities Achtkarspelen and Ty-tsjerksteradiel, where the shortages mainly arise from the social domain. Bruining: "The question is whether it will remain just sticking plasters or whether the government will take responsibility and come up with a structural solution for the long term."
Music education
In Achtkarspelen there was some talk that the 280,000 euro subsidy for music education would be stopped as part of last year's austerity plan. It now appears that the subsidy can remain, the plan will be discussed in the council in July. If the government ultimately provides more money for youth care, there are plenty of other financial challenges for municipalities, Bruining emphasizes. "The introduction of the Environmental Act has been postponed, but we have not yet considered compensation for the additional costs associated with the introduction of this law and costs have also increased in the WMO after the government introduced a subscription rate."
Since the introduction of this rate, municipalities can no longer make a distinction between people who, based on their income, would or would not be eligible for parts of the WMO, such as domestic help. The group that uses this has therefore increased. In addition, more use is being made of the WMO due to an aging population.
Page 19

Load Date: May 28, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")