Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=130 km soon no more item
Leidsch Dagblad
October 14, 2017 Saturday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: APPENDIX; Page 002
Length: 1512 words
Byline: Text: Frans van den Berg Photos: ANP
Body


  With the new cabinet taking office at the end of this month, the political career of Melanie Schultz van Haegen will come to an end. He started 23 years ago as a VVD councilor in Leiden and ended up as minister of infrastructure and the environment. A self-chosen ending. Time for something different. Time for a look back.
Melanie Schultz van Haegen has a spacious corner room on the eleventh floor of the office colossus next to the central station in The Hague. With glass from floor to ceiling, she has a perfect view of the city.
Below her the trains roll, trams and cars drive. The ideal backdrop for a Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment. Her hometown of Leiden is just barely visible, but she will return there at the end of this month as a regular citizen. And although she was State Secretary three times and Minister twice, she can still walk the streets there. “Sometimes people speak to you or look around, but usually I can just walk through the city and the market. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are always the best known. I once went on a campaign with Gerrit Zalm and they would shout after him, Gerritje. Luckily I don't have that. Only on October 2 when you are dancing does everyone want to take a picture with you, but then people are a bit more relaxed. I experience it like a warm bath. They never talk about policy, except for the occasional occasion when a man who has had too much to drink wants to talk about traffic jams in a café. Then it is his mates who prevent that,” she says with a smile. That café visitor will not have known that Melanie does kickboxing every Monday evening. In her youth she wanted to become a farmer and later became a mayor. Things turned out differently. “The farmer's wife came because a friend lived on a farm. That was in Groningen and her father was a professor. They only had a horse and a cow. Indeed the romantic image of a farm. And mayor? I came close as an alderman in Leiden, but that turned out to be a much more enjoyable job. Aldermen often have substantive portfolios. The mayor is more like the father of the city. So it never happened and is not planned. It is also irrelevant whether I have been asked about it,” she responds to the story that she turned down the mayoral post in The Hague at the time.
Achmea
State secretary, minister or a job in the business world suits her better. She got to know all three. The business community finds them interesting, but in combination with a social demand. So not a company where you have to sell as much as possible. More like at Achmea, where she was director of healthcare purchasing for three years.
In recent years, she believes, it has become increasingly complex to realize things in the public space. “But at the same time we are also getting better at it. Now when we want to build a road, we do not submit the drawing, but immediately involve everyone. We say what we want, but we also immediately sketch variants. Then you often arrive at completely different designs and you also get more support.” An approach that has been applied to new roads such as the A4 Delftland, the tunnel in the A2 near Maastricht and the Gaasperdammerweg in Amsterdam. “People need to see that it is an improvement.” The method also worked in the Room for the River program and she is proud of that. “With climate change, it is no longer possible to keep raising the dikes. You have to flood land, but go tell those residents of dike houses and businesses. At first I was greeted with pitchforks, now with coffee. Residents and municipalities could submit their own wishes. This not only made it safer, but also more beautiful. Building with nature. It is a method that we now want to market as a product worldwide, such as for the Mekong Delta, Myanmar and the US.” She interrupts her speech: “Look how beautifully that rain is passing by now.” A moment of enjoyment, after which she simply continues. “Don't forget the Delta Program, which looks fifty years ahead. We respond to these future developments and make one billion euros available for this every year. Unique." Less visible to the general public, but complicated, was the Environmental Act. “When you want to put a shovel in the ground, you have to deal with a lot of laws. We have replaced that with one new all-encompassing law.” But of course Melanie Schultz van Haegen was also criticized, especially when it came to the construction of even more roads and the increase of the maximum speed to 130 kilometers per hour. The queen of the asphalt. “The car is listed as bad and dirty. But that's not right. With more cars there are now fewer emissions and noise. It's not about more asphalt, but what you solve with it. We have now taken the initiative to realize some missing links in the road network, such as the Rijnland route between the A4 and the A44 near Leiden.”
130 km
The 130 kilometers was symbolic politics on both sides. “For some parties, including my VVD, it was a symbol, just like for part of the environmental lobby. Shame. You have to look at the facts. There are no more accidents. Slightly more emissions, but because all cars have become cleaner, this is insignificant. I prefer to focus on the source. Clean cars, electric driving, more taxes on polluting cars. When all cars are clean in the future, will it still be relevant whether people take the car or the train? Then it becomes more a problem of the accessibility of the cities, the capacity. I am very happy with the rollout of 130. When you have five lanes from Utrecht, where hardly anyone drives for large parts of the day and then there are signs 100. Then you wonder why?” In total, she worked for twelve years in traffic and water management and later on the environment and spatial planning. She had no interest in other ministries. “I love this ministry and these topics. I am not in politics for politics' sake, but to achieve something. In this ministry you don't have much to do with politics. Here you just have to get to work: building roads, raising dikes, widening rivers, working on rail and aviation.” Partly due to cabinet changes, two things did not work out: the sale of Schiphol's shares and the tendering of public transport in the three major cities. The driver's license and license plate for tractors also don't seem to work. “I have submitted the plan again, otherwise we will soon receive a huge fine from the EU.”
Fyra
She never received a vote of no confidence. Some minor riots surrounding the alleged conflict of interest with her husband's water companies. Also hassle with the NS timetable in 2006 and later the Fyra. The latter file cost State Secretary Wilma Mansveld her head. “The story keeps popping up that I pushed that file and aviation to the State Secretary. That is not true. This has been included in the State Secretary's package for years. I also did that in that position.” Yet Mansveld stumbled over the Fyra. “No one could have foreseen that. Things were going well until the first plate fell off the train. I then offered to take over part of her portfolio so that Mansveld would have more time for the rest of her files. It also depends on how you handle the files. Current State Secretary Sharon Dijksma has few problems with it. She has been in politics for even longer and makes her own money. He doesn't need my advice.” All in all, a political career that started in 1994 as a councilor in Leiden will come to an end at the end of this month. “A provisional ending. Never say never. But as a minister I will not be returning anytime soon. As Prime Minister? That's not at the top of my wish list.” But now that Jeanine Hennis has resigned as minister, the VVD has lost a strong woman. Especially because Edith Schippers is also quitting. What if Mark Rutte calls again? “There are a lot of good strong women from which the VVD can choose.”
Schiphol
No, her decision is made. That does not apply to what she will do next. “Things regularly come my way. I've almost said yes once. That was an area that has nothing to do with my current policy area.” A persistent rumor is that she will succeed Jos Nijhuis as director of Schiphol Airport at the end of next year. “I was never asked to do that. I'll leave it as a fantasy story for now. I'm not concerned with it at all. Conflict of interest? In theory it is possible. I haven't made any decisions about aviation for ten years. It's a strange discussion. If I go to the UN or the World Bank and do something with water, everyone thinks that is fine and good for the Netherlands. Really, I don't know yet. I will make a decision about it in peace.”
 "I'm not in politics for politics' sake"
 'As a minister I will not return anytime soon'

Load Date: October 13, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")