Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipalities are struggling with Environmental Act
Friesch Dagblad
February 26, 2021 Friday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group BVAll Rights Reserved


Length: 539 words
Body


Law that involves citizens in the living environment must be introduced in any case
Leeuwarden Obstacles due to corona, high costs and concerns about the digital system: Frisian municipalities are struggling with the introduction of the Environmental Act, according to a tour by the Friesch Dagblad. Yet they say they want to see the law introduced as of January 1, 2022.
The Environmental Act must ensure that there are fewer and clearer rules about the design of the living environment. Citizens and companies must also be more closely involved in plans about this.
But municipal officials spend a lot of time preparing for the introduction of the law. This puts 'extra pressure on the organization, because other activities also have to continue', the municipality of Harlingen responds. This pressure is relatively great in small municipalities, but Súdwest-Fryslân also speaks of 'a major operation with a major impact on the official organization', which reminds the municipality of the previous decentralization, that of the social domain in 2015.
Complicating factor
Many municipalities cite the corona crisis as a complicating factor. Achtkarspelen and Tytsjerksteradiel note that the extensive working from home, especially in times of school closures, has inevitably led to lower staff productivity. At home, civil servants had to divide their attention between homeschooling and work.
The Environmental Act replaces a whole package of laws and regulations regarding the design of the living environment, which makes it complicated for civil servants. The law appears to be complex and it requires a lot of training and technical consultation for civil servants to master the intricacies of the law. 'Practicing with this normally takes place physically and in many cases it does not work well digitally,' says De Fryske Marren. 'Those involved are dropping out,' says Terschelling. Vlieland, Leeuwarden and Heerenveen also mention the working conditions due to corona as a delaying factor.
In addition, corona made it less possible to experiment with one of the most important aspects of the new law, the more active involvement of residents and companies in drawing up environmental plans. This was barely possible with physical meetings and had to be largely digital. Council members also became less closely involved as a result, several municipalities say.
One of the main concerns of municipalities is the digital counter, to which every municipality must be connected (the Digital System for the Environment Act, DSO). Through this DSO, permits must be applied for, among other things, and information becomes available about the applicable environmental regulations per site.
In October, the ICT Testing Bureau already cracked critical notes about the digital system. It was not yet finished and, according to the agency, it was questionable whether the DSO would be fully functional in time. Eleven Frisian municipalities indicate that they still have concerns about this. They emphasize that as far as the DSO is concerned, they are dependent on the government, which must ensure that the system works properly. "That is an absolute condition for being able to work properly with the law in the future," West- en Ooststellingwerf and Opsterland write in a joint response. But 'will these national facilities be ready on time?', Waadhoeke wonders.
Page 19

Load Date: April 1, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")