Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipality wants one vision for Rijnsburg Noord
Leidsch Dagblad
January 13, 2016 Wednesday


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION
Length: 278 words
Byline: Unknown
Body


 RijnsburgIn Rijnsburg Noord, so many different projects run through and past each other that the municipality of Katwijk wants to draw up a single vision for the area. "The plans have often been drawn up independently of each other and this appears to lead to implementation problems in practice," states the mayor and aldermen's proposal.
An overarching vision must ensure that individual projects are coordinated. The request from landowners to build six homes along the Vinkenweg was the direct reason for developing the plan, but also just one of the examples. This includes the development of the Klei Oost Zuid business park, the Trappenberg-Kloosterschuur greenhouse horticulture area and the construction of homes and the improvement of the roads and underground infrastructure in the village centre. The mayor and aldermen want to make 83,500 euros available for the development of the area vision. The project can directly serve as a 'learning instrument' in preparation for the new Environmental Act, according to the council. This law, which will be introduced in 2018, bundles existing laws in the areas of building, environment, water, spatial planning and nature. The plan for Rijnsburg Noordwijk, among other things, sets out the role of the municipality and other parties for each part, a financial chapter containing the feasibility and who will pay for what costs, and how (citizen) participation and communication should proceed. The proposal will be discussed during an information session during the city council on Thursday evening. Residents and other interested parties are allowed to participate in the discussion and can register in advance with the clerk's office.

Load Date: January 12, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")