Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=I would like a windmill, but not near my house
de Volkskrant
June 1, 2016 Wednesday


Copyright 2016 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Economics; Page 30
Length: 522 words
Byline:  FROM OUR REPORTER JEROEN DRUMMEN
Body


Members of the Eigen Huis Association who live near a future wind farm are in favor of wind turbines as a source of sustainable energy. However, those turbines should not be located near them. In that case, the share of supporters shrinks to 25 percent, more than 40 percent is opposed and the rest are ignorant or without a strong opinion.
This is evident from a survey by the Eigen Huis Vereniging among all, almost 20,000 members who live in a postal code within 2 kilometers of the areas designated by the government for large wind farms. These locations are mainly in the IJsselmeer area, the Drenthe peat colonies, South Holland and Zeeland.

The research confirms the 'not in my backyard sentiment', the association acknowledges. She locates the cause of this in the dissatisfaction of the homeowners involved with planning and participation in the wind farms. Only 11 percent are positive about this.

'Although the government, initiators, project developers and environmental organizations have an interest in the greatest possible support, participation often does not get off the ground,' says director Rob Mulder.

Only 19 percent of the members contacted responded to the survey and one in seven of them had not heard of wind plans in the nearby postal code. Nevertheless, the result provides a representative picture, the association believes. "This is a normal response to our member surveys."

There is relatively less opposition to new wind farms around wind locations in the IJsselmeer areas, and in the Drenthe peat areas the share of opponents is higher. "But the differences are smaller than we expected and the number of supporters is actually considerable everywhere," the spokeswoman said on Tuesday.

Opinions surrounding one future wind farm, adjacent to the Afsluitdijk in the IJsselmeer, have not been investigated. 'There is only one house in the adjacent zip code area and that homeowner is not even a member.'

In recent years, the Eigen Huis Association has organized petitions to improve participation in wind farms. She has also advocated, among other things, financial compensation for local residents and a postponement of the construction of wind farms in anticipation of a new generation of solar energy.

The new survey is not a prelude to a targeted action against wind farms, the association says. Together with the Dutch Association of Local Wind Energy Residents (NLVOW), the main aim is to improve the participation of local residents. 'By just saying that you are against it, you are putting yourself on the political sideline.'

The two associations will combine options to better involve citizens in wind plans in a 'wind energy participation guide'. The aim is to eventually anchor this bundle in the Environmental Act.

"It makes no sense that local residents have to wade through files of four thousand pages to find out how the plans for wind turbines really work," says Eigen Huis director Rob Mulder. 'Our ambition is a citizen-friendly approach in which citizens have a position and feel heard.'
A quarter of homeowners believe that a wind turbine should be located nearby

View the original page: page 30

Graphic

 
A windmill close to houses in Medemblik.
Photo ANP

Load Date: May 31, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")