Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=All of Leiden can participate in the discussion
Leidsch Dagblad
November 22, 2018 Thursday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 006
Length: 276 words
Byline: Gertjan van Geen
Body


  Leiden The entire population can have a say in what Leiden should look like in 2040. Various topics are discussed during the Week of the City Discussion.
On Saturday, councilor Fleur Spijker (D66, Sustainable Urbanization, Space & Living) will kick off the Week by opening the Leiden 2040 exhibition on Stadhuisplein. The Environmental Act will be introduced throughout the Netherlands at the beginning of 2021, giving citizens more influence on changes in their environment. The city of Leiden will face new challenges in the coming years in the areas of living, working, accessibility and sustainability. This requires future plans, which the municipality wants to make with its citizens. From Monday to Thursday, four themes are discussed at four different locations. On Monday, PLNT on the Langegracht will discuss working and doing business in the city. A day later, there is a meeting in the Red Carpet LKounge about 'the growing city', in which issues surrounding construction, housing and quality of life are raised. On Wednesday, the last meeting of the Rijnlands Architecture Platform on the theme of water in Scheltema will be used to also look at the identity of the city.
On Thursday the social side of Leiden will be discussed in Het Gebouw aan het Arubapad. The week will end on Friday afternoon between four and six o'clock with a talk show in Scheltema, in which the preliminary results of the Week of the City Conversation will be discussed and it will be explained how we will continue on the road to the future, or 2040. The program is detailed. can be read at www.leiden.nl/2040
 Week of the City Discussion about the city in 2040

Load Date: November 21, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")