Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Civil servants can no longer rely on their feelings
Friesch Dagblad
December 28, 2023 Thursday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 630 words
Byline: Wybe Fraanje
Highlight: Joure The merger of 26 laws and 135 measures or regulations regarding space, soil, water, air, noise, nature, built environment, infrastructure and monument care presents municipalities with an enormous task. "Is the organizer of the clear foar? Yes and no."
Body


Work has been going on since 2014 on the Environmental Act, the collective law in the field of spatial planning and the environment, which will come into effect on January 1. The municipality of De Fryske Marren has also worked hard to learn to work with the new law.
All Jacob Bremer has just completed a full day of Environmental Law course. They discussed the ins and outs of the new law with colleagues from various teams at the town hall in Joure. They were already well informed themselves, because they are part of the project team that has been preparing the introduction of the Environmental Act for years. Bremer, Cluster Permits coordinator in the Permits, Supervision and Enforcement team, is "already in compliance with the Surveillance Act".
The government makes it look easy. Now there is such a thick stack of laws, Bremer gestures, and soon that stack will become so thin. "But then you're already in love with that tin paper fan in your pocket booklet, I hissed, completely mad."
Because all that legislation may be bundled in one law, that does not mean that the number of rules regarding construction and environmental permits has been reduced. From January 1, citizens and companies must submit their applications in the Digital System for the Environment Act, a system that is not easy to understand, and which also requires answers to many questions that have nothing to do with the application. Bremer: “We practiced in the DSO. Foar in the neighborhood behind the garden you should look for all the flora and fauna you need. Primal in fish stew by the way - I just don't know what that is. This is because the Nature Act is also registered with the Development Act. We wait here in soad questions oer."
But the question is whether there will be a rush at the beginning of January. The communications department and the Customer Contact Center are in any case prepared for questions. "Is the organizer of the clear foar? Yes and no," says Bremer.
Radical change
On the one hand, the municipal council has made all the necessary administrative choices on time, with a decision on the fee ordinance last week, citizen participation has been explained on the website, and civil servants have been trained. That's all in order. "But it is in yngripende feroaring foar the amtners. It likes a nice place for the police and the mayor: in soad laws within ferdwûn. But the ready knowledge of the finer points of the Omjouwingswet is still lacking. Foarhinne koene amtners op gefoel har wei fine yn all laws. That feeling is no longer present and no need to worry about the Omjouwingswet and you can see how it works. My colleague, who is already very familiar with the Omjouwingswet, says: what do I know about this law, how much more complicated it becomes."
In addition, the Environmental Plan, which is intended to replace the current zoning plans, is far from ready. The Fryske Marren now has three zoning plans for rural areas (inherited from the three merged municipalities) and all villages and the city have their own zoning plan. Bremer: “We are now starting to take steps to complete the new conversion plan by 2025. We are heading no further than 2032. All zoning plans and numerous fan arrangements will not come from the Temporary Transformation Plan."
Once the final Environmental Plan is in place, it will also become easy for the citizen. He can then see at a glance what he is and is not allowed to do on his property. "The positive vibes from the Omjouwingswet will come then."
Nevertheless, it is good that the law is already being introduced, after several postponements. “We had to take the jump and it was a dream come true. The place is positive and this is an important step therein, a stimulus to get things done just right. In the meantime, we would rather lean back because we could not do anything during this time."
The 'positive vibes' of the Omjouwingswet will not come until 2032
All Jacob Bremer

Load Date: January 23, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")