Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Providing a home is more than just housing'; interview Julius Terpstra
Leidsch Dagblad
July 6, 2022 Wednesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 4
Length: 1591 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


interview Julius Terpstra
Accidentally an illegal extension, under scrutiny by investigative journalists due to possible influence by the construction lobby and the SP, which is threatening a motion of censure for something his predecessor decided. Councilors have sometimes had a less bumpy start than Julius Terpstra, the new Leiden CDA councilor for building, housing and welfare. “Yes, I would have preferred to start differently. But I was able, I hope, to show that I stand for openness, clarity and transparency."
When it comes to construction, Leiden Christian Democrats often advocate family homes with a garden. High-rise buildings preferably in moderation, because they are not looking for a Hong Kong on the Rhine. Yet Terpstra mainly has to deal with apartments in high-rise blocks. And for beautiful empty polders to build on, as he fervently advocated as a Member of Parliament, he is certainly in the wrong city. "We have one here, the Oostvlietpolder, and we have made it very emphatic that we will not arrive there."
But he does not experience it as a burden, on the contrary. “There is really something going on. There is a housing shortage and my party also sees that this has reached extreme proportions. People have a lot of difficulty finding a suitable home. So that's my intrinsic motivation. If we have to get into the air, let's get the flow going so that homes with a garden become available. I think it's great to be able to contribute to a solution to offer people a home. I think that is the core, not the politically driven angle of the past.”
Courtyards
He hopes to achieve mobility from single-family homes by offering attractive alternatives to the elderly. Because it is that group that often lives in a large house from which they would like to move, he thinks. But then there has to be an affordable place to go. The coalition agreement includes a new type of senior courtyards for them. "We cannot oblige anyone and I don't want that either. But we want to offer seniors the opportunity to live together, with communal areas where they can meet to combat loneliness. Close to amenities and in your own neighborhood."
"We have specifically included those elderly courtyards in the agreement, but many more people are of course looking for a home. It would be great if we saw housing construction more as building communities than just stacking bricks. There are many initiatives for this, for example with courtyard gardens and public space aimed at meeting people. There is a danger, and you can see it happening, that people become lonely when everyone sits alone behind the front door. I want to bring this task of creating communities to the fore much more in area development.”
Facilities are also needed for communities and the mayor and aldermen will from now on expressly include locations for general practitioners and health centers in the package of requirements for area development. This was in response to the cry for help from Leiden general practitioners about high workload and the impossibility of finding enough suitable and affordable health centers in the city. “We also see that we are short on GPs. And offering a home to all those people who are looking for it is more than just housing. That is why I like my portfolio so much: building, living and welfare. That belongs together.'' In order to find solutions for general practitioners in the short term, Terpstra will talk to them on Friday with colleague Fleur Spijker (care).
Starters
Terpstra has also regularly spoken out in the past about offering starters a fair chance on the housing market. As a councilor he hopes to be able to do something for them, although with current house prices and rents that is no easy task, especially in a Randstad municipality like Leiden. “First and foremost: there is a shortage of everything. But starters simply have a hard time. If you have completed an education, perhaps have student debt, permanent contracts are no longer the norm and then you cannot buy or rent a house... then you simply stand still. And they often earn just too much for social housing, but not enough for purchase. So we are working on that. Recently at De Premier in the corner of 5 Meilaan and Churchilllaan, in addition to the 30 percent social rent, also 20 percent for starters. These are the smaller houses. Logical too, because you often start alone or with two people. Medium-priced rent, between 750 and 1000 euros per month. And in the purchasing sector, up to 355,000.”
Varied
Many plans have been in the making for the 8,800 homes that Leiden wants to build by 2030. It will be especially with new projects that Terpstra can implement the new wishes of the coalition agreement relatively easily. There, the increase in the minimum mandatory share of social rent to 35 percent can simply be included in the principles. Current plans depend on the cooperation of developers.
In any case, housing associations must play a greater role, the coalition believes. Especially in other people's projects. The social housing that developers build is generally small, not necessarily for all social target groups for which housing is needed. Terpstra would also like to see more variation and more attention to quality of life and meeting people. "Because I am very concerned about this loneliness." Now that corporations have more to spend due to the abolition of the landlord levy, this should be possible, according to him. "I think that the market and corporations can strengthen each other, that they both benefit from it. That they can achieve better developments than if they did them alone.”
"It will take some administrative courage to speak with the initiators to look at the classification of current projects. But I think it is also attractive for developers and corporations to offer as varied a range of housing as possible. But we are still in the initial phase for many projects and there is certainly room for adjustments and new living concepts. I am not looking for hit and run developers, but for developers who are committed to sustainable development in Leiden. There are plenty of them, but we have to stay focused.”
Unlike in parliament - Terpstra was a Member of the House of Representatives for a year from May 2020 - the construction lobby does not normally walk around the corridors of Leiden city hall. Nevertheless, the municipal council is on its guard after an article by Follow the Money and the journalistic platform Investico, which showed that Terpstra, among others, was pressing in Parliament for the development of precisely those polders where developers own a lot of land.
"It makes the otherwise unsubstantiated suggestion that I did that with the developer's financial gain in mind. I reject that suggestion," he told the council committee that questioned him about it last week. “It was about construction. There was a need for more government direction, but there was no ministry for public housing at the time. These locations had already been considered in the past and the fact that a lot of land is in the hands of developers means that you can develop them quickly. It is clear that as an alderman I only serve one interest and that is that of the city of Leiden."
Nevertheless, it means that he is now investigating whether a Leiden lobby register can be created. In order to become an alderman, it was previously stated that a fellow alderman would always look over his shoulder when he had to deal with developer Heijmans, where he started working after his membership of Parliament. “I appreciate that too.”
And then an angry SP member said something about what a predecessor did with youth care, and an - accidentally - illegal extension of his own house should be legalized. Terpstra is having a rather bumpy start in his new job. “Yes, I would have preferred to start differently. But I was able, I hope, to show that I stand for openness, clarity and transparency."
The fact that even a seasoned construction politician made a mistake with municipal permit information during his own extension also says something. "The fact that I drew the wrong conclusion based on that means that we have to be very careful about our communication. This is also stated in our policy agreement, that we must be clear. Although it's actually crazy that we have to write that down."
As an alderman, he intends to go into the city much more to talk to stakeholders about construction projects. And he has high expectations of the Environmental Act that will come into effect next year. "The idea is to arrive at designs much more in advance and in consultation."
But, he warns, he also takes the interests of home seekers into account in his considerations. "I understand that people find it intense when a project is developed in the neighborhood. That is logical, also that it sometimes leads to resistance or questions. And it is absolutely not the case that we do nothing with the input of local residents. But we may sometimes have quite a difficult message, because I'm not going to talk people down either. We should not raise false expectations."
It would be great if we saw housing construction more as building communities than stacking bricks
First and foremost: there is a shortage of everything. But starters simply have a hard time
PDF file of this document

Load Date: July 5, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")