Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Installing antenna masts is not immediately an option for residents
Leidsch Dagblad
March 30, 2021 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 6
Length: 354 words
Byline: Paul van der Kooij
Body


Hoogmade
When choosing locations for antenna masts, B and W of Kaag en Braassem do not have to structurally take into account the wishes of residents and the municipal council.
Samen voor Kaag en Braassem (SvKB) had wanted to arrange this through a motion, but it received too little support in Monday evening's council meeting. However, one council member after another understood perfectly well that petitioner Roland van Beurden wanted to do something after the application for a transmission tower threw Hoogmade into turmoil. When granting the permit for the 37.5 meter high structure, the mayor and aldermen had not taken into account whether, for example, it would affect the open landscape of the Hoogmadesche Polder. Van Beurden: “As a municipality, we currently have no instruments for this. We can only examine whether a provider's application meets the legal requirements."
Hoogmade
"But what general information can you get from that about antennas?" asked a councilor like Hans Klink (Pro Kaag en Braassem). "If they are soon hung in lampposts every hundred meters, will you also have to participate?" Moreover, next year there will probably be an environmental law in which municipalities can also arrange these kinds of things through their own environmental plans. This is how it was argued left and right.
And in Hoogmade, as far as D66 councilor Nick van Egmond is concerned, customization is possible: "There is now a not so nice, temporary solution there. I hope for a better temporary solution and that the antennas can then go back to the church."
At least, he added, if there is a tower to put them on again: "Now there is only a cautious green light for the rebuilding of the Catholic church." Plus, Van Beurden reported, support from the village council to to place the antennas there again. The municipal council also made it clear a few weeks ago that it was willing to discuss the mast as soon as the council, as now, has received advice from the objections and appeals committee. "The transmission tower is clearly on everyone's mind," Van Egmond reported. "So it is not expected that he will fall through the cracks."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 29, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")