Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The cabinet as a plaything for the daily rates of popular sentiment
de Volkskrant
March 18, 2023 Saturday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 2
Length: 598 words
Byline: MEREL VAN VROONHOVEN
Body


Column
“My grandfather voted for the BBB,” Kevin says. His eyes shine as he points to the party posters at the back of the classroom. Lauren, who was at the demonstration on the A12 with her mother last weekend, can barely hide her horror. 'The BBB? They are against nature!', she fumes. Her look betrays great concern. “Why did so many people vote for the BBB, teacher? Don't they worry about the future of their children?' I explain that I think they are also concerned about the future of their children and that is why they have made themselves heard so loud and clear.

175 years after Thorbecke signed the Constitution, his life's work is still very much alive. Whatever you think of the outcome, the people have spoken. And that's good news, I tell my class. Yet parliamentary democracy is not without concerns. The House of Thorbecke, which was already showing cracks, has been shaking to its foundations since Wednesday. Apart from the impasse that will arise in the provinces over the nitrogen plans and urgent housing construction, the election results will have major consequences for the already fragmented Senate.

In itself this should not be a problem. The Senate is not the House of Representatives, which comes up with plans and legislation. 'Not the creation of good, but the prevention of evil', the Senate itself writes about its function. A cautious group that limits itself to checking legislation for feasibility, legality and enforceability. At least, that's what it should be.

Unfortunately, the body that is supposed to protect us against the issues of the day is in practice no longer the chambre de réflexion that it pretends to be. After every election, the Senate becomes more political. Thanks to the campaign circus of national politicians, these Provincial Council elections have also degenerated into a 'sham election' of a non-directly elected 'shadow House of Representatives'.

Former FvD senator Otten recently explained how Senate politics works on Nu.nl. He helped Rutte get an extra vote for the Nitrogen Act, in exchange for 'nice pictures' in the press. The photographer from the ANP news agency was already ready. Rutte reluctantly agreed after Otten threatened: "If you don't go along, we will vote against the law."

The consequences of the politicization of the Senate are major. The cabinet, which is only halfway through its term of office at the State elections, becomes a plaything for the last day's prices of popular sentiment. Legislation for necessary long-term improvements does not get off the ground. Political deal-making also distracts senators from their core task: monitoring the quality of legislation. Potentially harmful, especially at a time of new laws with a major impact, such as the Environmental Act and the new Pension Act. It would not be the first time that downright disastrous legislation has been guided through the Senate. The controversial Benefits Act passed silently, as did the Nitrogen Act, which was later rejected by the Council of State.

Democracy is too expensive for political games in an indirectly elected body, Thorbecke already knew in 1848. The Senate was a thorn in the side of the founder of our democracy. Abolition goes too far. But the Senate must stop playing the House of Representatives. An overhaul of the 'groundless and purposeless' institution is desperately needed.

"But Thorbecke is dead, teacher," Lauren shouts through the class. 'And we want a break!' She points to the clock. It's time to play outside in the woods. As long as that is still possible.

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: March 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")