Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='It's getting out of hand'; interim workers Grumbling about hiring expensive temporary employees in Alphen
Leidsch Dagblad
August 12, 2023 Saturday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 16
Length: 306 words
Byline: Wim Wegman
Body


interim workers Grumbling about hiring expensive temporary employees in Alphen
Nieuw Elan is very concerned about the sharply increased costs of hiring external staff. The wish was once to limit this to five million per year. According to Alphen councilor Robert Jan Blom of the coalition party, expenditure has now risen to fourteen to fifteen million euros.
Alphen aan den Rijn
Blom refers to national figures, which, according to him, show that Dutch municipalities will spend an average of 17 percent of their total wage bill on external hiring in 2022. In Alphen that percentage would be more than thirty percent. He therefore calls on the council to limit the high hiring rates and to employ more people on a permanent basis.
Blom asked B and W in a series of written questions about the matter. He wants to know from B and W what work the hired workers do, how many have been hired, how long they have been active for the municipality and whether they are deployed for longer periods.
But he especially wants to know what the municipality is doing to employ more permanent staff. For example, he saw only twenty vacancies on the municipality's website. He also wants to know whether there are 'revolving door civil servants', employees who were initially employed and then hired externally at higher costs. He is also concerned about whether the municipality has staff with sufficient knowledge of subjects such as the new Environmental Act.
To limit
Blom asks the council to quickly limit hiring to five million per year, but also to see whether joint action can be taken with the VNG against what he believes are far too high hiring rates. The money spent on external employees puts a heavy burden on Alphen's budget and is at the expense of existing and new facilities.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 11, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")