Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The uncertain fate of art on the street
NRC.NEXT
September 13, 2016
nn Tuesday


Copyright 2016 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Culture; Page 26
Length: 1568 words
Byline: Sandra Smets
Body


ABSTRACT
Environmental art
 It is the most endangered part of Dutch art history. The vast majority of environmental art is demolished. But the tide seems to be turning.
The demolition permit had already been issued, preservation was hopeless. Breda train station has been so extensively renovated in recent years that the art present could not be saved. It was too complicated, because the environmental artwork from 1973 designed by Peter Struycken had completely merged with the former station building: tiled kiosks, an abstract paving, concrete panels as windbreaks on the track and tiling of the floor and walls of a long pedestrian tunnel.
With this type of environmental art, of which Struycken is the most important Dutch representative, preservation is often impossible, precisely because it blends in with the environment: a wavy designed parking lot, dynamic light works, squares and facades. Yet the expected demolition in Breda turned out differently. The artist says that a critical resident, Mr Van den Berg, got things rolling. Former councilor Akinci argued in favor of preservation, architect Van Velsen went along with it, even the heritage association Heemschut, founded in 1911 to protect the medieval cityscape, took action. Part of the work was saved and can now be seen in the middle of a brand new station: two yellow-blue-black tiled kiosks from Struycken, temporarily fenced off to be renovated, as a reminder of a bygone era.
Environmental art is the most threatened chapter of Dutch art history. According to Struycken, about 80 to 90 percent of his work in public spaces has been seriously neglected or demolished. And he is also a museum-lauded celebrity. What about lesser-known artists who, like him, made a new kind of art possible on the streets in the 1970s?
Because although you wouldn't easily tell from the concrete paving stone appearance of some works, environmental art was a radical art form at the time. It started at a time when art was in constant motion. In 1966, the art academy in Arnhem opened the Monumental New Style department, with artists Struycken and Berend Hendriks as main teachers. Artists were tired of always sticking a work of art on something afterwards. That could have been better. And so artists started thinking about construction processes and planning. The Netherlands was busy building and the new environmental designers had enough work. Until the 1990s they designed hills and parking lots, spatially placed objects, decorated walls that were architecturally integrated. Mondrian's idea that art would become redundant if the whole world became one work of art became reality.
This later turned out to be a Pyrrhic victory. The art was so well integrated that no one saw that it was art anymore, those light lines and concrete elevations, according to philosopher Siebe Thissen, author of the book Images published this year. Due to this ultimate integration, a lot of environmental art is quickly demolished. Restoring paving stones or parking spaces is not self-evident, demolition workers do not recognize it as art. Neither does the public. Art, here? , Zoetermeer residents in the Buytenwegh shopping center respond when you ask about the two black sculptures by David Vandekop that stood toweringly high for thirty years, and yet were overlooked. A facade relief by André Volten, also an important sculptor, on the Rotterdam office building where architectural firm OMA is located, was included by the winter painter in the painting work. Not to mention the school art of the 1970s: almost all the fun concrete objects on schoolyards have now been replaced by swings and rubber tiles on which you can safely fall. The Hague Municipal Museum also noticed something like this, which wanted to have Constant's playground equipment built for his exhibition this year, which could not take place due to regulations. Art is important, so are baby teeth.
Because of its far-reaching integration, environmental art has a harder time than the monumental reconstruction art of before: also architecture-related mosaics and murals, but better recognizable as art. Citizens are more likely to stand up for this than for environmental art. Moreover, in reconstruction art, with families in the sun and upward diagonals, you can still see some popular upliftment, bildung, the transmission of a social ideal. Not in environmental art. She created meeting places, yes, but it was business, design. Environmental art is designed to be just as functional as street furniture, says Jeroen Boomgaard, lecturer in Art & Public Space at the Rietveld Academy. You can't love a lamppost either.
In recent years, the Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands has also focused on the period up to 1965, with publications and the website helpwandkunstopspoor.nl, on which concerned citizens can register reconstruction art. And in his article Environmental Art, a visual pacifier, Dirk van Weelden in this newspaper in 1994 called Arnhem School Art the terror of mediocre and stupid art.
Nostalgia
So little love, but the tide seems to be turning, not only in Breda. With demolition comes scarcity, with scarcity comes nostalgia, and in addition, the new heritage law has come into effect since July 1 this year. Simone Vermaat of the Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands (RCE): Together with the new environmental law, the heritage law makes integral protection of our cultural heritage possible. Since 2012, buildings younger than fifty years old can also be given monument status. With this new law, an interior in conjunction with a national monument can be designated as an ensemble. Although conservation remains difficult, even with this law. The Rijksmuseum recently exhibited design sketches by Herman Hertzberger for his famous Centraal Beheer building in Apeldoorn, but the building itself is under threat: vacancy. So what now?
Vermaat sees a change in interest: After our attention to the reconstruction period, the 1970s are now looming on the horizon. The RCE focuses on the period 1965-1990 as a new study area for the government to protect, such as the preservation of concrete experiments. That the idea of ​​heritage is rejuvenating is also confirmed by Norman Vervat van Heemschut, who is increasingly concerned with post-war monumental art: This varies from environmental works by Struycken to special stained glass windows from the 1950s. For example, an important facade relief by Berend Hendriks in Waalwijk is scheduled for demolition next month.
Earlier this year, Chief Government Architect Floris Alkemade advocated a national database to protect art in public spaces, because there is no overview. Vervat estimates that perhaps 100,000 to 200,000 art commissions were realized in the built environment in the decades after the war, but most do not venture estimates. We actually have no idea. Not even from what is gone.
If you would like to see some more environmental art, you can hop on your bike and take a look around. Because it is still there. For example in Zoetermeer. At the time, the scene of planning experiments: gallery flats, terrace houses, cauliflower neighborhoods, it is an open-air museum for environmental art: concrete spheres on the sidewalk, posts with serrated plexiglass, steel kinetic sculptures. Zoetermeer welcomed artists in the 1970s and 1980s, also to think creatively in the urban development of neighborhoods. From an orientation support group, Struycken especially remembers a consultation evening in which the idea for a park with a pond was torpedoed by a lady who immediately raised the danger of children drowning.
Art also sometimes has to make way in Zoetermeer. The two-part sculpture by David Vandekop has been moved to the new Oosterheem residential area. In the spirit of the work, it is once again located near a train track. Other art adrift, for example from depreciated school buildings, will be given a place in the town hall from October 2017, which is being renovated. There it is shown as a collection, telling the story of the city that was designated as a growth center in 1962. Just like in Almere, you have a loyal population of residents here who feel like the first inhabitants. Visual arts then work as an anchor point, according to the Society department.
Kees Verschuren, who made a large spatial design on the Dobbe Island in Zoetermeer, now demolished, says that attention to the environment has grown due to environmental art. Artists started to see how the built environment can acquire poetic meaning. Because they promoted this as guest lecturers at designer training courses, architects and planners also started to pay attention to it. The visual arts have achieved this.
Sometimes demolition is understandable, Struycken agrees, except when it happens due to disinterest. He doesn't see that with private clients, he says, but he does see that with governments. But: I find conceiving and realizing so attractive that I accept the prospect of destruction. There are even attempts to rescue damaged works by third parties, but he insists not to make that effort. I'd rather make something new.
In Zoetermeer, environmental art adrift is given a place in the town hall, as part of a collection that tells the story of the city

Graphic

 
Environmental artwork by Peter Struycken in the pedestrian tunnel of the old Breda station. This part has now been demolished. Far left: statue of David Vandekop as it stands now, in the bend of the Randstadrail, at Hugo de Grootlaan in Zoetermeer.
Photo municipality of Breda

Load Date: September 12, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")