Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Officials not yet ready for the Environmental Act
Friesch Dagblad
September 28, 2022 Wednesday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 673 words
Byline: From our regional editors
Highlight: Leeuwarden Employees of municipalities that specialize in the new Environmental Act want a postponement of its introduction. Seven in ten civil servants fear that crucial files such as the housing construction task will be delayed due to faltering ICT and staff shortages when the Environment Act is introduced on January 1.
Body


The law is a
folding and bundling of 26 laws and 135 measures
to arrange
This was written by the trade magazine Domestic Governance after a survey among municipal contact persons of two of the seven suppliers of the software for the Digital System for the Environment Act (DSO).
The introduction of the Environmental Act has already been postponed several times, but Minister Hugo de Jonge (Spatial Planning) wants to stick to January 1, 2023. The House of Representatives has already agreed to this, the Senate will debate it on November 1. The Environmental Act is a simplification and bundling of 26 existing laws and 135 measures or regulations. The Environmental Act applies to all levels of government: central government, provinces, water boards and municipalities. The survey, which was conducted in early September, is limited to municipal officials.
The Environmental Act also provides for a single digital counter. That's where the problem lies, almost all 177 respondents indicate. They represent approximately one third of all municipalities. According to them, the required software system Digital System Environmental Act (DSO) still has too many snags. There has not been enough time to test the computer program, says researcher Ester Hilhorst of I&O Research, which conducted the survey. “Environmental plans and permits require coordination with other authorities such as the government, province, environmental services and water boards. In the opinion of two-thirds of the contacts, these chains have not yet been tested well enough."
The Senate has asked the ICT Assessment Advisory Board for an opinion on the DSO. That must be ready before November 1.
Staff shortage
38 percent of respondents say that the introduction of the system cannot be completed on time due to a lack of staff. 35 percent indicate that the DSO is still far too unstable to be used. The civil servants also feel that they are on their own when the DSO is introduced. Almost half say they experience the support from the Association of Dutch Municipalities as (very) insufficient. The course program Getting Started with the Environmental Act, which is intended to help civil servants work with it, also has problems. 'The chagrin about the state of affairs is now so great that half of the respondents would prefer to cancel the Environmental Act completely,' notes the Internal Affairs Board.
But that is not a realistic option, officials realize. 69 percent of them want to postpone the date of January 1, 16 percent are sticking to that date, 15 percent don't know. The proponents of January 1 indicate that they are afraid that if the bill is postponed, the urgency among colleagues to continue working on the introduction of the law will fade.
40 percent of respondents expect 'serious consequences for services to citizens' if the Environmental Act comes into effect on January 1. The majority of them even speak of chaos. 45 percent of respondents fear that essential files such as the housing construction assignment will be delayed.
Unqualified
In August, Minister Hugo de Jonge admitted that he had informed the Senate in an unqualified manner. He had been 'too simplistic' in a number of answers to questions about the Environmental Act, he wrote to the Senate.
The issue was about the delivery of the DSO. In May, De Jonge said that delivery was on schedule, but at the beginning of August this turned out not to be the case. It also turned out that the ministry knew about this. Part of what the digital system must be able to do in order to be introduced on January 1 was ready in April, but this was worked on later. He should have informed the House more explicitly about that "nuance", as De Jonge called it, he later wrote.
It was not the first time that the minister provided incomplete information to the Senate about the law. The Senate will finally make a decision on November 1. In a committee meeting before the summer holidays, a majority of the factions stated that January 1, 2023 remains the starting point, pending the advice on the DSO.
Link to PDF

Load Date: September 27, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")