Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Hillegom is going to step it up a notch
Leidsch Dagblad
April 24, 2018 Tuesday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 007
Length: 496 words
Byline: Sjaak Smakman
Body


  New college BBH and CDA ready in record time, VVD still sidelined
Hillegom Continuing on the chosen path and going the extra mile where possible is the motto of the new Hillegom coalition of BBH and CDA. Just like last time, the council will start with four aldermen: Anne de Jong and Jan van Rijn for BBH, Fred van Trigt and Karin Hoekstra for the CDA. In the last elections, both parties gained one seat, and that was remarkable in both cases: BBH already made a giant leap from two to seven seats in 2014, while the CDA had to accept a slight loss in the council elections nationally. It was already clear on election night that BBH and CDA would continue their collaboration and that Anne de Jong and Fred van Trigt would remain aldermen.
Two winners
BBH initially felt in favor of keeping the VVD in the coalition, the CDA immediately suggested a coalition of the two winners. "We then decided to sit down with the winners first and that went very smoothly. We are the first in the region to be ready," said Evers. Although the CDA only has four seats compared to BBH's eight, the party provides a second councilor in the person of faction leader Karin Hoekstra, in addition to Fred van Trigt, although she will become a part-timer. According to Evers, the fact that there will be four councilors has to do with the expected workload: the new Environmental Act will be a tour de force and in addition, regional cooperation is becoming increasingly intensive. With two councilors for each party, BBH also wants to emphasize that it really sees the CDA as equal. Much has been done in the past period and has already been implemented and the new council wants to give this an extra boost. This applies in particular to the center plans and housing construction: progress must be made in the Henri Dunant plan, the Jozef Park, the former Paulus and Hillegom-Noord.
 Inclusive society
Houses for starters, but also new forms of housing where seniors can live in groups of their own choosing and look out for each other, must be given shape there: the so-called inclusive society. As a welfare councilor, Van Trigt also wants to implement this in all neighborhoods, 'although I realize that it will not be easy'. Jan van Rijn will become the second BBH councilor in addition to De Jong. He comes from healthcare, but will not be doing that portfolio. He stays with Van Trigt. He is responsible for work and income, public works and participation, among other things. Hoekstra, whose father Henk was also an alderman in Hillegom, will work on the Environmental Act and is also responsible for sustainability and neighborhood policy. De Jong keeps finances, the center plans and the Duinpolderweg in his package. The new council wants to try to involve residents much more in policy making. How, that still needs to be worked out. The council will be officially elected next Thursday.

Load Date: April 23, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")