Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Hundreds of municipalities: we will strike if the government does not step in
Friesch Dagblad
June 19, 2021 Saturday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 745 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan and Rik Rutten
Highlight: Municipalities are in massive financial trouble. They are now increasing the pressure on the government and the forming parties: without extra money they can no longer do their work. All Frisian municipalities also join this.
Body


Leeuwarden Less home care for the disabled. No new integration courses. No guidance for the unemployed. And the government can whistle for the proceeds from municipal boa fines.
Municipalities are threatening to stop their work if the central government does not quickly make additional money available. A motion calling for such a strike received the support of the vast majority of municipalities at the conference of the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) this week.
With the threat, the intensifying battle that municipalities are waging with the cabinet over money is entering a new, tougher phase. Over the past ten years, municipalities have taken over all kinds of national tasks, they complain, but their budget has hardly grown. The corona crisis came on top of that. With all the measures in the climate agreement, directors fear additional cost items in the coming years.
1.5 billion too little
Mayors, councilors and citizens everywhere now feel this. The central government distributes more than 30 billion euros annually to all municipalities. And according to local administrators, that is at least 1.5 billion euros too little. Just for youth care. This is supplemented by the Social Support Act and other items. Financial worries are more the rule than the exception. Earlier this year, NRC reported that hundreds of municipalities had to make significant cuts or increase their taxes to balance their budget for 2021. Even with such interventions, 120 municipalities could not solve the problem: they could not submit a balanced budget.
Now it is enough, the municipalities say almost unanimously. They have often expressed their concerns, but there has never been talk of a strike before. If no money is added this autumn, they threaten in Wednesday's motion, the door to The Hague will be closed. New tasks that the government wants to transfer to the municipalities, such as the Integration Act and the Environment Act, will then be ignored. Existing tasks are scaled back and consultations with a new cabinet are stopped.
"The language in the motion is strong, but the experience of recent years has shown that it is necessary to draw the attention of the government to the financial distress with which it has saddled municipalities," says councilor Marc Rosier (VVD). Zoetermeer.
In his municipality, resistance to the central government was the first to organize itself, under the banner of Raden in Verzet. That initiative quickly grew into a mouthpiece for hundreds of municipalities. "We entered municipal politics in 2018 to mean something to the people," says councilor Marijke van der Meer of Zó! Zoetermeer. "But since then we have only been busy making cuts. Dramas are taking place locally, they are never the national press. And the penny has not yet dropped with the responsible Minister of the Interior Ollongren."
Decentralizations
The biggest stumbling point is decentralization. In recent years, municipalities have been made responsible for care for the disabled, youth care and guidance on the labor market. This transfer of tasks should not only improve implementation, the Rutte II cabinet believed, but also save money.
The practice was often disappointing. Youth care created an annual deficit of almost two billion euros. Yet the central government only pledged additional money sparingly. The now proposed refusal to work stems from that anger.
Municipalities hope that the cabinet and the forming parties will change tack and provide financial assistance. But there was little sign of that in recent months. Earlier this year, State Secretary Paul Blokhuis (Public Health, Christian Union) called it "not chic" for an outgoing cabinet to close the entire gap for youth care: he did not want to contribute more than 300 million euros.
 1.3 billion is not enough
At the end of May, a committee ruled that the central government was offering far too little help. Only then did the cabinet decide to pledge another 1.3 billion euros to the municipalities - but then on a one-off basis. That is not enough, the municipalities say: after next year the gap will be the same again. And that's just youth care.
Many councilors are already taking into account that after the municipal elections in March next year, their successors will have few options other than to make even more cuts. They see the joint threat as a last straw. A cry for help. Van der Meer: "There is a drama going on."
© NRC Media
The government may be able to use the proceeds from municipal boa fines
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 20, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")