Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Hope it will be the same as with the millennium bug'
Friesch Dagblad
December 28, 2023 Thursday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 945 words
Byline: Jan Ybema and Wybe Fraanje
Highlight: The introduction of the Environmental Act is, after
years of delay, January 1 will be a fact after all.
26 laws and regulations have been combined. Applying for a building permit, for example, should be easier, but the question is whether everything works properly right away.
Body


For example, citizens who want to build a dormer window must apply for a permit from the municipality. From January 1, they will do this via the Digital System for the Environment Act (DSO), but the question is whether such an application will become easier. "You should always be careful," warns Annie van der Werf, who, as a lawyer for the province of Fryslân, has been involved in the development and implementation of the Environmental Act since the beginning - 2014. "You have to be very careful. Del. If you are in the beam, it should be neat to get it off the water, to name a few, but you already have to deal with the questions and that is very irritating."
These are teething problems that will hopefully be resolved quickly, but provincial officials cannot do anything about them. This must be done at a national level. "We can't do it right, all in all but also," says deputy Sijbe Knol, politically responsible for environmental policy.
It is precisely a point that would make things easier for citizens that does not work. There would be a quick licensing test in the DSO. While you are at the hardware store purchasing a garden shed, you should be able to see immediately on your phone whether you need a permit for that specific type. If not, you can buy it right away and build it in your garden. Van der Werf: "Sa gigantic ambysjeus who the DSO ynearsten, but that who just helber and is loose."
For large construction projects
the Environmental Act makes it easier. 26 laws and 135 measures or regulations about space, soil, water, air, noise, nature, built environment, infrastructure and monument care are combined. The Environmental Act applies to all levels of government: central government, provinces, water boards and municipalities.
A gigantic official exercise, Van der Werf knows. She and a number of colleagues have been working on it since 2014. "We'll start seis man within May. We invite colleagues from all corners and gather around the table from our organization. Fan the ordielings nature, love, property, sound and safe. It is who pioneered and started it."
That is a benefit of the Environmental Act. "The mearwearde is that integrality: all the officials from the entire organization have a lot of gear, and they are also members of our best organizations such as municipalities and Wetterskip."
Knol: “That pigeonholing is no fun. We are now stuck in the integral conversion process. Now it is up to us and the municipalities to make it just more complicated for boaters than it already is. But that sil sure wool may have bumps."
The province's Customer Contact Center is prepared and ready to help people who get stuck in the DSO.
Postponed
The introduction of the law was repeatedly postponed, mainly because the digital system was not yet working properly. Now that the time has finally come, it feels a bit like the end of 1999 for Sijbe Knol, when it was feared that the 'millennium bug' would disrupt all computer systems after January 1, 2000. "It's just like we won't leave the bank on January 1." to see if you are still alive, but we can already enjoy it."
"I'm a fan of it, because it's cool but neat," says Van der Werf, "but it's already exciting in a small way."
Knol: “We are hoping for a millennium moment. That there is still something to be said within, but that of the whole thing is neat and it is just festive."
However, the Council of State's concerns have not yet been allayed and they would have preferred to see a phased introduction of the law. This is now a huge system change that will probably provoke many lawsuits in the coming years to test the limits of the law. Now that the entire law is being introduced at once, the Council of State fears great pressure on the judiciary and delays in rulings.
"By the provinces, we are clear," says Knol nevertheless. "There are just reasons to assume that it is just a little bit quiet on your part. Then we must all agree on what to do next, I guess. " The Organization has extensively practiced the Environmental Act. Knol: "Mar from 1 January or it is just a test run, but it is for the real thing."
Hegewarren
The Hegewarren peat meadow project has been tested in the DSO. Fryslân has also formulated an Environmental Vision - a Frisian approach on the basis of which the implementation of the Environmental Act takes place. It is unique in the Netherlands that Fryslân, together with Wetterskip and municipalities, have drawn up the building blocks for the Environmental Vision. During the development of the Environmental Vision, pop-up counters were set up in vacant shops throughout the province, where brainstorming sessions took place with citizens and municipal officials.
After ten years of working on the Environmental Act, political reality has already partly caught up with the philosophy behind the law. The intention was that municipalities and provinces would have more control and say over the design of the living environment. "No sooner will that exit point come into contact with you," Knol notes.
Because the government is now starting to take control again, for example in the field of housing construction and energy transition. “Fryslân does not generally have any strong restrictions for wineries on land and parks, but now we should also generate terawatts of green energy. Then it just has more old lytse coins on farmhouses, which will soon be in place. We want to make sure that the choices we make are easy for you."
There will still be some tough political arguments to be fought over. The intention is for a renewed Frisian Environmental Vision to be decided in 2025.
Page 2 Commentary
There are just a few reasons to assume that it's just a little off on your part
Sijbe Knol

Load Date: January 23, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")