Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Civil servants poke fun at themselves: hit on YouTube
Leidsch Dagblad
February 21, 2020 Friday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2020 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 007
Length: 547 words
Byline: Paul van der Kooij
Body


  Kaag en Braassem The municipality of Kaag en Braassem has a hit on YouTube with a video in which civil servants show that they will work differently. Before explaining how the municipality will from now on be 'made together with the citizen', civil servants hilariously list many prejudices about the civil service.
For example, the citizen who wants to submit an idea for his village - in reality it is information officer Christian van Brakel - causes a commotion at the town hall in Roelofarendsveen. If the desk employee wants to connect him to a colleague by telephone, the boat is turned away en masse. To get somewhere, she leads the citizen into the town hall. They pass officials who wear a purple crocodile, study a 'from-pillar-to-the-wall manual', throw tricky issues over the fence and the like. Once the citizen has finally pressed an alarm button - intended for citizen initiatives like his - then officials flee in blind panic. Everything changes with the message that his idea will only become current in 2021. This results in an invitation to go to the floor where the new way of working is being practiced. “What can I do for you?” is the first question. The video has already had about 1,700 hits on YouTube within two days - about 1,250 for the ten-minute version and 450 for the version half as long. And on Facebook pages of the municipality and KaagenBraassem News it provokes reactions such as 'Very nice and clear video! Compliments to the municipality of Kaag & Braassem', 'This is really nice!', 'Greatly put together ha ha' and 'Very nice. Well done municipality!'
2021
A few are critical: 'Far too many words and why only listen to residents in 2021? I'll wait and see.' The timing has to do with the new Environmental Act. This should simplify regulations regarding matters such as spatial planning and living environment, but what happens in a municipality like Kaag en Braassem? Drawing up a local Environmental Vision - which must ultimately result in an Environmental Plan - requires a lot of preparation time. This is partly because the municipality attaches importance to broad consultation - such as via the new, 850-user digital platform - in the belief that plans improve when residents 'participate and help decide'. In addition, the wishes 'clash' on some aspects and the municipal council still has to make a decision. The desire to conserve greenery is counterbalanced by the desire to expand villages and grow with the Randstad. For example, there would be a need for 2,600 homes in Kaag and Braassem until 2040. Or take the call for more biodiversity and less soil subsidence. Should this require people other than today's farmers to manage the landscape? And what is more important: large-scale energy generation or the open landscape? On March 9, the council will discuss such matters in conclave, based on a number of statements. The first is on Monday, March 2, in De Spreng in Oude Wetering. The following evening - again from 7:00 PM - there is one at ROAC. Number three will be held on Wednesday, March 4: the municipality 'joins' the product market that will be held from 5 p.m. in De Ontmoeting in Leimuiden.

Load Date: February 20, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")