Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Everyone in favor of green, but not concretely
Leidsch Dagblad
March 16, 2019 Saturday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2019 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 009
Length: 581 words
Body


  The Hague Protect greenery and nature: most political parties agree on this. But they are often not very clear about how you should take concrete steps to achieve this.
   The VVD's slogan is: 'Give space for development, cherish landscapes'. It is the province's task to set frameworks for the distribution of scarce space, using the new environmental law as a legal framework. The motto is to build as much in the city center as possible. The PVV wants nature and recreational opportunities to be shared by everyone. The election manifesto states: “There is room for liveliness on the coast. Beach houses, beach tents and entertainment make a good contribution to this.” Finding a good balance, says the CDA. And also: mainly building within built-up areas. “The province must protect the most valuable and vulnerable landscapes such as the coastal landscape.” D66 places green on one. When making spatial choices, the importance of a healthy living environment must come first. Building within the built-up area is the motto. “We are making money available to develop new nature,” the party writes. Also: enforce the construction ban on the coast. The PvdA wants a nature network throughout the province. “We are strengthening greenery in and around the city. We also protect dune landscapes, forests and meadow bird areas. In this way we preserve valuable nature for the future. The establishment of the Hollandse Duinen National Park is a good example of this. We will connect such nature reserves at an accelerated pace, with ecological connections that will be ready in 2025.” The ecological connections are also mentioned by the SP. “Where possible, these connections between nature reserves lead to economic developments.” Protect, says GroenLinks: “There will be no further damage to the former national landscapes such as the Green Heart, the coastal strip, the Hoeksche Waard and the Bulb Region.” The SGP wants the focus on biodiversity. “Sometimes it is wiser to upgrade existing nature reserves than to create new nature.” The Christian Union thinks South Holland is a great province to live in. “The water, the dune areas and other special nature and recreational places ensure that South Holland is also an ideal place for recreation and relaxation. (...) The province has an important role when it comes to the protection and design of the living environment.” The PvdD makes a call: stop filling up open areas. Some points: protect special provincial nature reserves, National Parks, water extraction areas and valuable cultural landscapes, ensure silence in quiet areas and ban 'light pollution' in nature. At Nida they are concerned, but the party does not offer a solution. “Every child understands that trees do not grow endlessly into the sky, yet we think that this is possible with economic growth.” Denk wants more greenery in the cities and wants to maintain the existing green corridors between urban areas. At Forum for Democracy, green does not stand for solar and wind energy. “Immediately stop the construction of wind turbines and solar meadows,” the party says. The Local Parties of South Holland point out the scarce space in the province. Building in green areas must be prevented, the locals say. 50Plus, Jesus Lives and Code Oranje have nothing about nature parks or nature in their election manifesto.
 'Do not build outside the built-up area'

Load Date: March 16, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")