Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Incongruent patchwork' in regional government
NRC
June 24, 2021 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 2
Length: 609 words
Byline: Titia Ketelaar
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
Council for Public Administration
Municipalities are involved in an increasing number of regional constructions. The Council for Public Administration (ROB) is critical of this trend.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The number of regional partnerships per municipality has grown to an average of 33. This has created a problematic and "incongruent patchwork" between municipality and province, concludes the Council for Public Administration (ROB), an independent advisory body to the government and parliament.
"Every time a department such as Economic Affairs or Public Health was going to implement a new law, a new regional construction was chosen, on top of the existing one," says Caspar van den Berg, professor of public administration at the University of Groningen and member of the ROB. He signals "a kind of proliferation in which coordination from the government was lacking".
In a report that will be published this Thursday, the ROB advises the House of Representatives and the incoming cabinet to make the Minister of the Interior legally responsible for all future decentralizations that directly affect municipalities. There is now a lack of direction, says the ROB. The central government does not sufficiently ask whether local government can adapt to new decentralizations.
"At the start of the Rutte III cabinet, the region was embraced, the word appeared 75 times in the coalition agreement," says Professor Van den Berg. "The approach to more and more social problems has been assigned to the regional scale. But The instruments and finances are not always sufficient for this. This is a task for the new cabinet."
The ROB says that municipalities should be free to enter into cooperation; For example, waste collection or tax collection is often done jointly by several municipalities for practical reasons. Regional cooperation is logical for statutory tasks such as youth care or major social tasks such as sustainability and housing construction, but may only take place under certain conditions, the ROB advises.
There is increasing dissatisfaction among municipalities about how the takeover of national tasks is turning out. Decentralization is often accompanied by mandatory forms of cooperation and national rules, and therefore with a decrease in policy autonomy. At the same time, there is a lack of money for the tasks taken over. Last week, municipalities announced that if no additional money is added, they will ignore new tasks that the government wants to transfer, such as the Integration Act and the Environment Act. Previously, the conflict between the government and municipalities over the financing of youth care became so high that a arbitration committee was used as referee. Such a means of resolving a conflict between layers of government is unique.
The reason for the ROB's advice is a motion from the House of Representatives, which wanted to know what the "opportunities and risks" are of increasing regionalization in (youth) care. The cabinet asked the ROB for broader advice, also about increased regionalization on other themes.
According to the ROB, new tasks should only be assigned to formal levels of government with a democratically elected representative. Because now "a formally non-existent organic administrative unit" has emerged, the ROB notes: "The region is a no man's land from a democratic point of view."
Another condition should be that if many national rules are imposed, such as with youth care, the government must bear the costs. "Municipal contributions should remain limited for well-defined additional wishes of municipalities," says the ROB.
Democratically speaking, the region is a no man's land Council for Public Administration
Link to PDF

Load Date: June 23, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")