Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=In De Fryske Marren something needs to be done first
Friesch Dagblad
February 25, 2022 Friday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 1073 words
Byline: Sanne Poppe
Body


Municipality of De Fryske Marren was created on January 1, 2014 by merging the municipalities of Gaasterlân-Sleat, Lemsterland and Skarsterlân. In the 2018 elections, the FNP had to surrender three seats: seven seats remained, making the CDA the winner with eight seats. CDA, FNP and VVD then formed a coalition. PvdA, GroenLinks, D66, NCPN, ChristenUnie and Civic Party DFM ended up in opposition.
Sand extraction
That situation changed in February 2019. CDA and VVD broke with coalition partner FNP after that party voted against the sand extraction plan in the IJsselmeer. From March, the coalition continued with the parties CDA, VVD, PvdA and GroenLinks.
The reason why things went so wrong in the CDA, VVD and FNP coalition is because the municipality did not know during the previous council period that it had to decide on the application of the Smals company to extract sand off the coast of Gaasterland. She thought this was a jurisdiction of The Hague. When the decision finally ended up on their plate, the council members had to delve into all the documents.
The FNP concluded from this, in the words of councilor Gerda de Vries-Suierveld: "We can simply do what we want." Her party therefore voted against the plan, while coalition members CDA and VVD were in favor. What followed was a break in the coalition CDA and VVD submitted a motion of no confidence against the two councilors of the FNP, Durk Durksz and Durk Stoker, De Vries-Suierveld says that the FNP is still terribly disappointed.
Lucienne Boelsma, party leader of the CDA, also regrets what happened in 2019. She was an alderman at the time and therefore saw two of her colleagues resign. "The FNP has been through a lot, but despite this, it managed to adopt a constructive attitude during the remainder of the council's term. I really appreciate that too."
To trust
It remains to be seen what the outcome of the coming elections will be, but there is of course a possibility that FNP, CDA and VVD will again win a majority. De Vries is clear: if that is the case, there will first have to be a good discussion between the parties before possible cooperation again. She does not rule out the possibility if the number of seats allows coalition formation. But: "It's just like sitting in a cold, clean place."
Boelsma of the CDA suggests starting with a clean slate. "The council period will soon start again, which is why we as CDA want to look at the future with an open mind," she answers when asked whether there is still confidence in a possible coalition with the FNP.
Colorful Fryske Marren and Forum for Democracy are participating in the municipal elections for the first time this year. What is special is that Kleurrijk FM is already in the municipal council, with one seat. Geeske Holtrop-Hoekstra was expelled from the CDA in April 2021 due to "matters in the field of spatial planning", in her own words. The conflict revolved around the status of several (recreational) homes on the property of her farm. She retained her seat and continued in July as Kleurrijk FM, an ally of the national party BoerenBurgerBeweging.
This year, Forum for Democracy is participating in fifty municipalities in the Netherlands. On the Facebook page of FvD Fryslân, Thierry Baudet's party mentions nine positions that the various local departments want to realize. There is no party program specifically aimed at the municipality of De Fryske Marren.
Housing shortage
One of the biggest challenges municipalities face is solving the housing shortage. Older people and young people would like to continue living in their municipality and space must be found for this. The PvdA is coming up with concrete plans. According to this party, homes should no longer be able to be used directly for recreational purposes. 'In addition, there will be an occupancy requirement for homes up to 350,000 euros, which will prevent affordable homes from being bought up by investors and give starters and families a better chance on the housing market.' D66 is in favor of appointing a housing councilor. This councilor must 'face the problems and challenges in the housing market'.
The NCPN believes that there are still opportunities within the social rental sector. 'The NCPN is of the opinion that the municipality should buy up social rental properties put up for sale by housing associations, so that these properties are not withdrawn from the stock of social rental properties.' In this way, the party hopes that the amount of social rental housing will remain at the same level.
It is clear that new homes need to be built. However, there is division over the question of whether these should initially be temporary homes or whether immediate investments should be made in permanent homes.
D66 and CDA argue for a combination, while the Christian Union wants to focus mainly on lifelong housing, as can be read in the party programs. Tiny houses can also be a solution, mainly for starters on the housing market; CDA and Citizen Party argue for this. FvD is explicitly against building tiny houses, this party would like to focus on repurposing vacant commercial properties into a residential function.
 An important point of attention in De Fryske Marren is the Environmental Act. How is the municipality viewed with its range of nature reserves, and how is this extended into the villages? More and more parties recognize that the sustainability aspect is reflected in many different themes, including in the Environmental Act.
For example, D66 is committed to banning new industrial agricultural companies and GroenLinks wants to promote biodiversity, also in urban areas: 'That means opting for ecological management of public gardens, green areas and other public spaces.' The VVD advocates 'the control of unwanted exotic plants that threaten native flora, but also adequate wildlife management'.
In fact, all parties come to the conclusion: caring for nature in a sustainable way is the future.
Longest serving councilor
Then an honorable mention: Rinze Visser (81) of the NCPN has been in the municipal council for 51 years and he is also the party leader in these elections. If re-elected, he could become the longest-serving councilor ever, the record now stands at 52 years. Rinze Visser joined the council of Lemsterland in 1970, then still for the Dutch Communist Party.
It's just like sitting there in a calm place
Gerda de Vries -
Suierveld
Link to PDF

Load Date: February 28, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")