Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=In Druten they will arrange it - without national politics
NRC
February 16, 2022 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 10
Length: 1478 words
Byline: Titia Ketelaar

Iris Verhulsdonk
Body


ABSTRACT
Report Local parties Hundreds of local parties also participate in the municipal elections. They won almost a third of the votes in 2018. Does it matter to residents whether local parties govern the municipality?
COMPLETE TEXT:
If anyone can know whether it matters to a municipality whether it is governed by national or local parties, it is André van den Hurk. CDA member. For a long time the only councilor of a national party in a municipal council that has been dominated by local parties for decades. Now alderman - not on behalf of the CDA, but for a local party.
After thinking for a moment, he says: "The resident doesn't notice anything." The administrative power of Druten, where he was a councilor and there are no aldermen from national parties, or in Buren, where he is now an alderman and one of the four aldermen comes from a national party, is no worse at municipal level than elsewhere, he thinks.
Four years ago, local parties together won more than 28 percent of the votes - twice as much as the largest national party, the VVD. Local parties will probably be dominant again in the municipal elections in March. In 267 municipalities, one or more local parties joined the council in 2018 - and this will also happen again after March. Yet it is a "stubborn cliché" that local parties "arise quickly, govern poorly and then disappear just as quickly," notes public administration expert Julien van Ostaaijen, who recently published the book Local Democracy Reviewed.
Some of the more than eight hundred local parties have been active for more than ten years. In sixteen municipalities they even managed to get more than half of the votes in the past four elections.
No stable orders from The Hague
In Druten, located between Tiel and Nijmegen on the south bank of the Waal, the party leader of Kernachtig Druten, Gerard Worm, wants to immediately debunk the clichés about local parties. His party is not a one-hit wonder and not a new phenomenon. Kernachtig Druten, formerly Dorpslijst Druten, was founded in 1978 and is the largest party in the municipality, including the council party. And in the Gelderland municipality (more than 18,700 inhabitants), local parties have been in charge since the beginning of the century. In the current municipal council, of the seventeen seats, only one is for a national party, the CDA. "Because of all the fooling around in The Hague, people were really fed up with national politics. They opted for a local list," says Worm. According to him, the feeling among the people of Druten was and is: "We will arrange it ourselves."
The secret, he says, is that local parties can be "left, right or centre". It varies per file. Worm says: "We are trying to make a policy that is important for Druten." There is "nothing wrong with national parties," he says. But "they look from a different perspective: how do we translate national policy to the municipality. We turn it around: how do we get the resources for local policy? the rural."
The only CDA member in the Druten municipal council, Johan Wiersma, says that he never receives "stable orders from The Hague". Of course he does have contact with other CDA members. During the refugee crisis "with Madeleine" [Van Toorenburg, Member of parliament]. About the social domain, so about youth care and social assistance, with MP René Peeters. About the waste dump with provincial colleagues. But Johan Wiersma makes his own choices.
Take the energy transition, an election theme in Druten. The council has rejected wind turbines, the alternative is solar panels on land. Wiersma: “I have read all the documents. My conclusion is that you absolutely shouldn't do it. No solar panels on fertile soil, only on roofs. There will be another food shortage. We need the country badly enough." He says he has taken that position himself. "I have complete freedom to do so."
What then happens, says Anita Smits, the new party leader of CDA Druten, is that all CDA members from the region are talking about it. "For coordination."
André van den Hurk, previously the only CDA member in the Drutense council, also sees this advantage: "We strengthen each other. How do you feel about it? The locals do not have that." As councilor for Municipal Interests in Buren, he implements the coalition agreement that the local party concluded, but "with my CDA network as a tool". He mentions his "line" with provincial administrators several times. According to him, it does not matter at the municipal level if there are only local parties, but at the regional level it does matter. And there are more and more cross-municipal themes.
Another important advantage, says Van den Hurk, is that in national parties, "the political figures are trained by scientific agencies. Take the new Environmental Act or the social domain. You have to keep up with new changes in the law. I think that is the advantage of a national party. That you are aware of what is coming your way. And there's an awful lot coming our way."
Long live the internet
But Gerard Worm, from Kernachtig Druten, says: "We will solve it ourselves. You knock on the door of the clerk. We had three or four information evenings about the Environmental Act. Those were wonderful presentations." He once took debate training in Utrecht. And he talks about the candidate council members: a care manager of a TBS clinic, someone who works at the security region, someone from education and a farmer. Moreover: "Long live the internet. Just click and you will get the best reports."
And that lack of network? Public administration expert Van Ostaaijen says this is partly correct. But research shows that councilors from local parties also benefit from their independence. Because they are seen as 'non-partisan', they are "more often and easily given key positions" in partnerships. Because they do not have to show loyalty to a national party, it is easier for them to adopt a critical attitude towards administrators at the provincial and national government.
"It does not matter whether an alderman comes from a national or a local party," says Jan van Workum, interim clerk in Druten and previously clerk in Berg en Dal, on the other side of Nijmegen. "If they all start to need time to grow in their political-administrative positions."
According to Van Workum, the "most crucial difference" is that national politicians are more often ideologically rooted. He compares it to upbringing: "If you are taught ten commandments at home, it is easier than thinking of them later in life." On the other hand, he sees that some parties are "clinging tightly" to that ideology. "Local parties, on the other hand, often have an assignment for the next three or four years. When that is completed, then there is a new item. they can respond quickly and earlier to what is going on locally," he says.
But he also sees that among national parties there is "a line to The Hague. Mail does not immediately disappear into the spam box."
Land of Maas and Waal
"We are not on an island here," says Gerard Worm from Kernachtig Druten. On the dining table, between the flowers and the newspaper De Gelderlander, is a cookie tin with a map of the Land van Maas en Waal on the lid. He takes it and points out the neighboring municipalities.
He says that Druten's position is guaranteed because the local parties also have a regional network. “Someone from another local party recently said it to Nijmegen mayor Hubert Bruls when he started talking about it. 'Are you aware that the largest local parties meet every three months?'" They have been doing this for six years, and discuss climate policy, among other things.
Worm: “The government says that we must become more sustainable. That's fine, we think too, but we would like to solve it our way. The largest floating solar panel park is located in Druten. We want to avoid having to install giant wind turbines from Nijmegen to Tiel."
How does Kernachtig Druten determine such a course? "I once learned this term from a pastor, and I thought it was a very strong one: you have to make do with the cauliflower pastor. These are the conversations I have in the vegetable department of the supermarket. That's where you meet people."
Because of all the rolling around in The Hague, people were really done with national politics and opted for the local list Gerard Worm Kernachtig Druten
You have to make do with the cauliflower pastoral, the conversation in the vegetable department Gerard Worm
800+
there are local parties
28.6
percent of the votes in 2018 went to local parties
2,612
they got seats
267
municipalities have one or more local parties in council
16
There are municipalities where local parties received more than half of the votes for four elections in a row
1913
is the founding year of the oldest existing local party: Gemeentebelangen Opmeer
14, 15, 16
March are the elections
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
In the Gelderland Druten in the Land van Maas and Waal, local political parties have been calling the shots since the beginning of the century. "We'll take care of it ourselves."
Photos Flip Fransen

Load Date: February 15, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")