Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Participation in every nature permit
Friesch Dagblad
July 16, 2021 Friday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 344 words
Byline: Theo Klein
Body


Council of State obliges governments to participate
Leeuwarden With every application for a nature permit, governments must provide the opportunity for consultation. The Council of State determined this this week in a ruling following a permit grant by the province of Overijssel.
The current Nature Conservation Act does not require this. In 2015, a pig farmer in Overijssel wanted to demolish his stable near a Natura 2000 area, where he kept fattening pigs, and replace it with a new construction for a sow farm. He immediately received the permit from the province because the company would no longer emit nitrogen.
The Leefbaar Buitengebied Foundation, an umbrella organization that promotes the quality of life in rural areas, objected to this, but was rejected by the province. Wrongly, the Council of State ruled this week. He referred to the Aarhus Convention.
According to spokesperson Peter Van der Meerschaut of the province of Fryslân, this ruling has no direct consequences for Fryslân. "We already work in accordance with the rules of this ruling for the vast majority of nitrogen cases."
However, the lawyers are looking at the further elaboration of this ruling in the context of the Interprovincial Consultation with colleagues from other provinces.
Legalization
Hans van der Werf of the Frisian Environmental Federation thinks it is a striking statement. According to him, it fits in with the further legalization of environmental policy. "You also see this with the lawsuits surrounding nitrogen that MOB has initiated. You also see that the precautionary principle is used in meadow bird management, which farmers can be held accountable for."
Van der Werf thinks that this statement increases awareness of nature's duty of care. "This applies not only to farmers, but also to companies and citizens. If you want to start something near a nature reserve, you can expect objections."
According to the press release from the Council of State, this participation is mandatory in the new Environmental Act, which should come into effect halfway next year.
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 20, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")