Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Intratuin Voorschoten not welcome; Majority of Katwijk city council agrees with refusal of temporary relocation permit
Leidsch Dagblad
May 15, 2020 Friday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 484 words
Byline: Hielke Biemond
Body


Majority of Katwijk city council agrees with refusal of temporary relocation permit
Katwijk
Intratuin Voorschoten is definitely not welcome in the De Woerd greenhouse horticulture area in Valkenburg. A majority of the Katwijk municipal council supports councilor Gerard Mostert in his refusal of the permit application for a temporary move.
As a result, the end of the garden center with sixty employees is near. The family business must leave its current location on Leidseweg in Voorschoten next year. Owner Sjaco Griffioen sold the land to a project developer twelve years ago; a move to the outdated greenhouse horticulture area for a maximum of ten years was his last hope.
The four coalition parties, Hart voor Katwijk and KiesKatwijk, agree with the alderman's main objection: that a temporary garden center does not fit within the current and future policy of the municipality. "We recently discussed the temporary N206 near Valkenburg, when we had to grant a permit based on laws and policy," said party leader Ton de Vries of the ChristenUnie, the alderman's party. "Now the opposite applies: our laws and own policies stand in the way of this. Any other decision will not stand up in court.”
Political supporters of the arrival of Intratuin emphasized how strange they find it that the municipality already determined in 2014 that a garden center does not fit in De Woerd, as the gateway to the new village at Valkenburg air base. Why was Griffioen assigned a provisional house number by an official nine months ago? They believe that the previous and current councilors have given the entrepreneur false hope for far too long. "I really don't understand that," said Ralf Boland of D66. "Surely this could have been communicated much earlier?"
This is because, the councilor explained, because the Environmental Act instructs municipalities not to reason in these types of cases from 'no, unless', but 'yes, provided'. “That's exactly what we did.”
Viewed from a distance, this was a clash between the working methods of entrepreneurs and those of the civil service, between thinking in terms of quick possibilities and multi-year processes. This division also became visible among the council members. Parties such as the VVD and Durf stated that given the pace of work of the municipality, there is certainly room for a garden center in the next ten years. And that objections regarding access are certainly surmountable.
In addition to approval, there was also strong criticism of the course of events from the coalition benches. "It doesn't deserve the beauty prize," said Bas Drinkwaard of the CDA. "We understand Mr Griffioen's feeling that the rules of the game have changed during the match."
Mostert: "We are certainly not happy with the way this happened, but it really cannot be otherwise."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 14, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")