Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Katwijk residents participate in discussions about the future of villages
Leidsch Dagblad
June 15, 2017 Thursday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 007
Length: 403 words
Byline: Marlies Vording
Body


  Katwijk Energy-neutral construction, more diversity within residential areas and attention to greenery. Just a number of themes that residents of the municipality of Katwijk consider important for the future of their villages. This week, 35 residents met in the 'Koploperscafé' to brainstorm about what should be included in the new environmental vision. “You hear sounds here that you hear much less at the town hall,” says policy officer Judith van der Laken.
Drawing up the environmental vision is necessary for the new Environmental Act, which will come into effect in all municipalities in the Netherlands in 2019. With this law, the central government wants to simplify and merge the rules for spatial planning. The idea is that the bureaucratic hassle surrounding new projects will decrease, while citizen initiative will increase. Katwijk has hired consultancy firm Over Morgen and urban planning firm Urhahn to develop the design. A vision for Katwijk until 2030 is laid down in a report. Seven objectives have been devised for this purpose that have something to do with the economy, education, housing, healthcare, culture, nature and the environment. “But nothing has been cast in concrete yet,” says Ad de Bont of Urhahn. “The new law consists of 26 laws that have to do with the living environment,” explains Feddo Zielstra of Over Morgen. De Bont: “Matters such as climate, healthcare and health are also included if they have an effect on the public space.” Social cohesion appears to be an important theme for Katwijkers. Marijke Minderhout of the Dunavie housing association elaborated on this: “I think an inclusive neighborhood is important. Individuality is beautiful, but it is even more beautiful if you can share it. Be ready not only for your family, but also for that distant neighbor.” The environmental issue is also an issue for many. “As far as I am concerned, there should be more room for innovation in companies,” said an entrepreneur from the audience. “Think of solar panels and how you deal with industrial waste.” Not everyone received the outlined lines with open arms. “These points apply to all municipalities in the Netherlands,” noted Jan de Lange. According to him, the ideas are not focused enough on the characteristics of the seaside resort. “Convey your vision in a different way that is feasible for Katwijk.” The vision is expected to be ready in January 2018. Before then, more meetings will be held where residents are welcome.

Load Date: June 14, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")