Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='You should not release an urban development plan on Grou'
Friesch Dagblad
September 8, 2022 Thursday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 583 words
Byline: Marianne Velsink
Highlight: Grou With a village cooperative, Grou wants to take more control over developments in the village. "It is still the case that the municipality of Leeuwarden throws plans for Grou over the fence at Pleatslik Belang Grou, asking them to respond. We prefer to make plans ourselves, in consultation with the municipality," says Tjalling Dijkstra, one of the initiators.
Body


A body that unites all interests and has permanent accountability
becomes an issue for the municipality
Ivo Krikke
Too often, Dijkstra notices that plans devised and made in the city do not match the wishes of the village. "You cannot unleash an urban development plan on Grou. Grou is not a new-build area like De Zuidlanden, but a village. This requires different core values, which may be better reflected in a village development plan. That's a self-invented term."
Grou wants to take an advance on the Environmental Act to be introduced, in which municipalities no longer work with zoning plans but with environmental plans. One of the expectations of this approach is that it provides more transparency and participation.
Information evening
An information evening at the Oostergoo hotel was attended by approximately one hundred interested parties on Tuesday evening. Among them were representatives from Pleatslik Belang, interest group Grou Breed and Business Club Grou. Ivo Krikke was present on behalf of the latter. He is chairman of the business club. "All three of us represent the interests of some of the residents of Grou. With the Village Cooperative we have a body that unites all these interests and becomes a permanent point of contact for the municipality." He speaks of a professionalization move.
Village coordinator
After the establishment of the cooperative, the three separate organizations do not disappear. The idea is that they work together in the cooperative. “We already meet regularly to discuss the Grou Village Vision. In two weeks we will discuss the details of the cooperative." The wish in Grou is that a (paid) village coordinator be appointed who will pull the cart. It has not yet been decided who will finance this. Dijkstra is in discussions with the municipality and with funds, and is investigating the possibility of setting up an energy cooperative in Grou.
In July, the Leeuwarden municipal council adopted the Grou Village Vision. This sets out the ambitions to establish a village cooperative and open a multifunctional center. Grou's core values ​​and identity were written down with the help of an Amsterdam consultancy firm. The village has a few plans to give substance to this, for example with a community house, a wetterhûs and more experience along the water, in the form of wide jetties, swimming ladders and saunas along the Pikmar.
From below
These plans are emphatically a starting point, Krikke explains. “The vision is nice, but how you will apply it in practice is not so easy. With village development you are also partly in the area of ​​municipal policy."
As an example he mentions the use of the former Halbertsma site at the J.W. the Visserwei. "We would rather not see recreational use there, but residential use. The municipality is now in discussions with the owner and developer to see what is possible. It's nice that we get a say in this way, but we would rather be at the drawing board sooner. With the village cooperative there is a permanent point of contact who can take care of this."
The village vision names water, wood and sustainability as core values ​​for Grou. "These values ​​are widely embraced," says Dijkstra. "Everything that is developed in Grou is measured against this benchmark."
The reactions in Hotel Oostergoo on Tuesday evening were mainly positive. Dijkstra is especially pleased that fourteen Grousters immediately indicated that they wanted to participate. "What a luxury at a time when there are no volunteers anywhere."
Link to PDF

Load Date: September 7, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")