Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The government can also make use of the corona crisis
NRC.NEXT
March 31, 2020 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 14
Length: 986 words
Byline: Rik Rutten
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
Parliamentary silence
Files that suddenly get a boost or come to a complete standstill in the shadow of the corona crisis: the House is looking at them with concern. "Public debate is the core of democracy."
COMPLETE TEXT:
The debate halls are empty, the corridors deserted, the ministries deserted - but The Hague is anything but silent. Political work continues in the shadow of the corona news. In fact, there has also been movement in a series of controversial files in recent weeks, as if the parliamentary silence suited the cabinet.
For example, Minister Ank Bijleveld (Defense, CDA) acknowledged last week that the cabinet had - again - misinformed the House of Representatives about the air attack on the Iraqi city of Hawija, at a time when debate about this is not possible. Another surprise: the mega renovation of the Amsterdam Zuidas will cost up to a billion euros extra in times of recession. And there was the issue of Albania and North Macedonia: negotiations with those countries about EU membership could still start, after Minister Stef Blok (Foreign Affairs, VVD) suddenly put an end to years of Dutch resistance to this.
All fodder for parliamentary questions - but there is no question time at the moment.
Agenda cleared
On Sunday, March 15, the government announced that it would close schools and catering establishments and ban gatherings. That same evening, the party leaders in the House of Representatives also decided to limit their own activities via Pexip, the video calling program that MPs work with. The debate agenda has been cleared, combating the virus is given priority. But that does not mean that all these other topics will be at a standstill in the coming months.
Last Friday, the cabinet sent out a list of bills that cannot wait until the post-corona era: from the nationalization of ProRail to plans from the pension agreement. That will not be an easy task: apart from the corona crisis, the House hardly debates. MPs are expected to provide their input through written question rounds.
FVD leader Thierry Baudet thinks this is undesirable. His objection: the House is not only a legislative machine, but also a stage. “Public debate is the core of democracy. Otherwise, the government can always say: our coalition still has a majority when we vote. Opposition, go home." Take the U-turn on the EU talks with Albania and North Macedonia, he says. "Maybe you as the House of Representatives cannot stop it, but then you have to have a discussion about it."
In a motion last week, Baudet proposed declaring "politically sensitive" topics controversial as long as the corona crisis rages on. A pause button, as it were, he explains: "Everything is on hold until we can continue." The motion did not receive a majority. Besides FVD, only PVV, SGP and one-man faction Wybren van Haga supported the proposal.
Is the government taking advantage of the corona crisis to hastily implement unpopular legislation? It is not that simple, says Leiden constitutional law professor Wim Voermans. It is difficult to prevent the government from sharing bad news - such as the letters to Parliament about Hawija or the Zuidas renovation - at this time. There is no prior legislation for this. Moreover: "Setting priorities is always a political process." When it comes to the parliamentary agenda, it is essentially no different from what the House of Representatives does every Tuesday: jointly determining which topics do and do not deserve their own debate. " Priorities are made every week, although the current order of magnitude is of course unprecedented."
Need 'a little more time'
Esther Ouwehand is not so concerned about the files that are being pushed, but rather about the issues that are completely at a standstill. "Just look at the nitrogen crisis," says the party leader of the Party for the Animals. It seemed inevitable that the coalition would have to quickly take painful measures, but with the corona crisis the urgency has disappeared. This is also visible in the implementation the cabinet must give in to the Urgenda verdict, which forces the Dutch state to take stricter climate measures.
Since the first verdict in that case - in June 2015 - the government's attitude has been marked by procrastination. After an earlier postponement, Minister Eric Wiebes (Economic Affairs and Climate, VVD) should have informed the House before April 1 how he intends to achieve the Urgenda goals. That will not work, he wrote in a letter to Parliament on Friday. Because of the coronavirus, "extra care" is needed when taking new climate measures, according to Wiebes, and that requires "a little more time".
Similar stories are circulating about the so-called Environmental Act, the planned decentralization of everything related to spatial planning and the living environment. This law is a headache for the Ministry of the Interior: its implementation has been difficult for some time, and the digitization of the legislation is full of flaws. A postponement to put things in order was obvious - although that is always painful for the cabinet. With the corona crisis, there is a "grateful excuse" to announce a postponement without political damage, says an insider.
Don't push through, but postpone: that is also a form of political opportunism. And it is precisely this reflex that the House must remain alert to by continuing its work, Ouwehand believes. This can also be done remotely.
According to her, there are even advantages to handling some files in writing. "You can ask more questions in a written consultation," says Ouwehand. "You are not bound by a speaking time as in an ordinary debate." This is quite useful in the complex climate and environmental debates that she often conducts. "Although it is easier to put pressure on a minister in a physical debate."
Setting priorities is always a political process
Wim Voermans, professor of constitutional law
Link to PDF

Load Date: March 30, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")