Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The coast cannot be captured in a pact
Leidsch Dagblad
November 8, 2016 Tuesday
Rhine and Veen


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 008
Length: 578 words
Body


  Great, the Coastal Pact has been published. Governments and social organizations have come together in the pursuit of a beautiful Dutch coastal landscape. But the Coastal Pact lacks an overarching view. The pact divides the coast into zones in which nature is mainly protected by a building ban.
But 'nature' is only part of the overwhelming and large-scale landscape that makes the coast so beautiful. Quality is not created by a building ban, but by smart investment. The Netherlands has a culture of making connections with high quality as a result; This often works with overarching quality teams. Do the same on the coast. Last summer, the 'Beautiful Coast' cycling conference visited professionals who work with heart and soul on a beautiful coastal landscape. The advisory organizations for spatial quality cycled and filmed the entire Dutch coast, while the pact parties sat around the table with each other. Aldermen, designers, developers and nature conservationists explained in front of the beautifulKUST camera what is going on in 'their' place. It is clear to us that the dilemmas are not black and white and cannot be simplified to 'development' versus 'nature conservation'. Anyone who cycles sees a rich, varied, vulnerable, pure and changing landscape, from Cadzand to Delfzijl. In the Coastal Pact, quality is defined as the preservation of emptiness and nature, while project development would by definition compromise quality. Examples of high-quality interventions, such as (the award-winning) Kustwerk Katwijk and the Hondsbossche Duinen, prove that quality can go hand in hand with development. Of course, that doesn't happen automatically. The desire to deliver quality must come first. A building ban does not contribute to this. Municipalities always have the final say with their zoning plans and permits, but are often under great pressure from investors in recreation and catering. Municipalities benefit from vision and great examples, instead of restrictions from above. By concluding the Coastal Pact, Minister Schultz is sending the opposite signal to the intentions of 'her' Environmental Act. This new law focuses, among other things, on 'good environmental quality'. This requires a different way of working than what the Coastal Pact radiates: it is no longer examined whether someone has the right to build somewhere, but whether his construction plan can be an enrichment and a solution to the problems that the community has. What is needed for this? Firstly, an overarching vision in which the value of the coast is described by people who really know the coast: a vision that is shared by the government, provinces, water boards, municipalities and of course also by residents. Secondly, municipalities can very well bear responsibility for permits and policy, without losing sight of the quality of the whole. The quality teams of, for example, the Hollandse Waterlinie and Ruimte voor de Rivier, have led to top quality that the whole world comes to see without a construction ban. Follow that example at the coast. The Board of Government Advisors and the provincial and municipal spatial quality advisors know how to do this: eliciting investments that significantly improve quality. Dorine van Hoogstraten and Martijn Oosterhuis, on behalf of beautifulKUST. Flip ten Cate, director of the Federation of Spatial Quality.

Load Date: November 7, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")