Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The quality of Dutch water is poor, farmers and builders fear the consequences
Friesch Dagblad
May 12, 2023 Friday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 443 words
Highlight: The Hague Minister Mark Harbers (Infrastructure and Water Management) says that he will do "everything" to achieve European water quality requirements. He is responding to a critical report from the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure (Rli) , which states that current policy falls short of achieving the water targets.
Body


Farmers withdraw water to irrigate their fields. There should be a reporting obligation for this, Rli believes
Poor water quality can cause economic activities to come to a standstill, similar to what happened earlier in the nitrogen dossier. Water plays a major role in industry, construction and agriculture. For example, farmers withdraw water to irrigate their fields. The Rli believes that all such activities should at least be subject to a reporting obligation. The new Environmental Act, which will come into effect next year, should be tightened up on this point.
In response to Rli's report, Agractie Nederland asks for clarity about the actual state of water quality in our country. That is crucial, says the farmers' action group. “Which goals need to be worked on? What causes exceedances? Only then can all perpetrators contribute to good water quality through targeted measures," says Bart Kemp, leader of Agractie. "We have been working on better water quality for more than twenty years, but so far measures have not been targeted and insufficiently effective. ."
 Bouwend Nederland also underlines the need for politicians to take action. The association of construction and infrastructure companies fears a potential annual loss of turnover of 17.5 billion euros for the construction and infrastructure sector if the Netherlands does not meet the goals of the European quality directive by 2027.
Bouwend Nederland warned last month about the possible consequences of the Netherlands not meeting the goals of the Water Framework Directive (WFD). After a study by consultancy firm Witteveen en Bos, it turned out that 'in the worst case, a quarter to a third of the total construction production can no longer be licensed'.
Rivers and streams
Minister Harbers recognizes the "urgency to work hard". He says he wants to make extra efforts to achieve the goals. Because Harbers also calls it "crucial that our rivers, lakes, streams, and also our groundwater, be clean and healthy."
Harbers has been working on additional measures for some time. His ministry points out, for example, that an amount of 800 million euros is being earmarked to ensure that fewer fertilizers from agriculture leach into stream valleys.
More action is also needed to reduce the amount of chemicals in the water, both at producers and at water purification plants. Harbers will discuss progress with all water administrators every two months, he says in an initial response to the advice. Furthermore, the minister wants to "better anchor the WFD goals in the regulations" where possible.
Link to PDF

Load Date: May 11, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")