Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Leiden residents will have a say in improving participation
Leidsch Dagblad
September 11, 2021 Saturday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 8
Length: 590 words
Byline: Binnert Glastra
Body


To lead
Improving the strongly criticized Leiden approach to resident input will become an election theme. The Leiden resident should vote in March next year for the party with which his vision most corresponds, it became clear during a committee meeting on Thursday evening. However, the parties themselves have not yet decided what that vision should look like.
The Leiden council committee discussed Platform31's research report on participation, made after more and more neighborhood and neighborhood associations turned away from the participation processes because the municipality does nothing with their input.
The committee quickly completed that report. It is full of open doors and recommendations that local politicians had also come up with themselves. Try to make it more fun, be clear in advance, offer a listening ear, try to reach more residents than just the usual group. Recommendations that the city council wants to adopt. And at the suggestion of the VVD, this is also formalized with a council decision. But opinions differ widely as to how things should be improved in the future. After more than two and a half hours of meetings, there is mainly a list of discussion points that they will discuss next time.
What most parties agree on is that there is no plan for the elections and that it is therefore up to the next city council to improve relations with residents. And that the election campaigns and debates are therefore an excellent way to let Leiden residents know where the differences are between the parties. However, with a view to the subject, the parties also want to look for tips and suggestions from the people of Leiden themselves in a 'city discussion' (also a VVD suggestion).
Thursday evening's meeting does provide some guidance. For example, the PvdA coalition suggests reintroducing district councilors. And D66 wants to first work on the recommendations in practice, but only formally change the participation regulation once experience has been gained with the Environmental Act, which will come into effect next year. GroenLinks, through councilor Marleen Schreuder, focused mainly on the fact that although stress must be removed from participation processes, anger and unrest in the municipality are also part of it. "We should not resist that, we should embrace it more."
Coalition agreements
The opposition says it is pursuing more far-reaching change. Party Sleutelstad, CDA and PvdD indicate that they are looking for a method in which residents gain influence earlier and more. "Less hard frameworks, even if you have already established policy," is how CDA member Roeland Storm put it. "Let the voter choose, just put a number of points in the coalition agreement, not too specific, keep it short."
Antoine Theeuwen of the SP certainly agrees with the latter and also wants open coalition agreements in which not everything is closed in advance and for varying majorities. “Make sure you have open objectives. Then you arrive at the goal of participation: support, a supported solution. And that is often the best because you are open to other people's opinions. If everything is set in stone, you run the risk of making wrong decisions that you can no longer move on from.”
Albert Brink of the Christian Union introduced an intermediate form. He also wants to see less recorded in advance, but suggests a number of scenarios instead of a completely blank sheet of paper at the start of the consultation process. “And go to the citizen, instead of the citizen having to come to an information evening.”
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 10, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")