Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Leiden uses new law to improve participation
Leidsch Dagblad
May 20, 2023 Saturday
City


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 2
Length: 363 words
Byline: Binnert Glastra
Body


To lead
In the run-up to the introduction of the Environmental Act next year, the municipality of Leiden is also trying to improve its much-discussed and often maligned participation procedure.
Like every municipality, Leiden has been busy adapting its internal processes and procedures for some time in such a way that the transition to the new law runs as smoothly as possible. This is a comprehensive project, because the Environmental Act merges 26 current laws in an attempt to make everything more clear.
When drawing up new policy rules regarding participation, the municipality also takes into account improving Leiden participation. In recent years, construction projects have regularly resulted in disagreements between the municipality and its residents. District and neighborhood associations in the city center even suspended all consultations with the municipality for a while in protest, out of dissatisfaction that it did little or nothing with suggestions made.
The new rules that the mayor and aldermen announced yesterday stipulate that the municipality does not just provide information during construction projects, but always actively consults those involved and local residents. Although there are four levels of participation above this (the highest is self-government), but according to councilor Abdelhaq Jermoumi (PvdA), it is nevertheless an important decision because it is an obligation. "In any case, in everything that falls under spatial development, we want the official organization to actively collect input. And we must also actively provide feedback on what has been done with someone's input."
Dissatisfied
It is still unclear what else needs to be done in this area. The mayor and aldermen, not surprisingly given the subject, would like to investigate this together with the city. That is why the municipality will soon hold some 'city discussions'. "We hope that this will result in a sounding board group that will help write it," says Jermoumi. He has no illusion that it will lead to the holy grail and that no one will ever be dissatisfied with participation again. “You can never please everyone. But you can indicate with reasons if you are not going to adopt something.”
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 19, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")