Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Leiden: rules are too strict
Leidsch Dagblad
January 12, 2017 Thursday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 001
Length: 361 words
Byline: Sebastiaan van der Lubben
Body


  Protocol over city interests? 'The government provides anything but clear guidance'
Leiden Increasingly strict controls on the internal affairs of the municipal organization are undesirable for cooperation with the city. The mayor and aldermen wrote this in a response to the critical comments that Ernst & Young cracked just before Christmas about the functioning of the municipal organization.
In the auditor's report, the municipality was accused of having no control over the implementation of policy on many points. For example, IT and internal financial systems turned out to be a mess. The municipality also had no control over the provision of subsidies, according to the internal accountant and Ernst & Young.
Too harsh
It is not surprising, the council would like to say in its response: accountants are required by their supervisor, the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets, to be increasingly strict. Too strict, the council believes. If you go through the organization with a dust comb, you will always find some lint. The city council fears that rules and protocols will soon be more important than the goals pursued in and for the city. In addition to strict accountants, according to the city council, the national government is also to blame for the problems. According to the council, both in healthcare and in the new environmental law, 'the management from the government is anything but clear'. Leiden wants to discuss this with The Hague. The council fears that otherwise the work in the city will no longer match what Leiden residents want. Municipalities are in danger of becoming implementers of national policy in both policy areas.
Balance
The municipality prefers to see trust in civil servants who feel responsible for their work, are 'owners' of a file and work together constructively. Rules are not sacred, the council suggests, but guiding. The council wants to find a balance between legality and efficiency: is money handled carefully and does the board achieve what it wants with it? “All this does not alter the fact that the council stands for an organization that is in control and demonstrates that money is spent lawfully.”
 Board of Directors critical of accountants

Load Date: January 11, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")