Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Leiden thinks the rules are too strict
Leidsch Dagblad
January 12, 2017 Thursday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 006
Length: 371 words
Byline: Sebastiaan van der Lubben
Body


  Protocol over city interests? 'The government does not provide clear guidance'
Leiden Increasingly strict controls on the internal affairs of the municipal organization are undesirable for cooperation with the city. The mayor and aldermen wrote this in response to the critical comments that Ernst & Young cracked just before the Christmas holidays about the functioning of the municipal organization.
In the auditor's report, the municipality was accused of having no control over the implementation of policy on many points. IT and the internal financial systems turned out to be a mess. The municipality also had no control over the provision of subsidies, according to the internal accountant and Ernst & Young. It is not surprising, the council would like to say in its response: accountants are required by their supervisor, the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets, to be increasingly strict. Too strict, if it is up to the council. If you go through the organization with a dust comb, you will always find some lint. The city council fears that rules and protocols will soon be more important than the goals pursued in and for the city. In addition to strict accountants, according to the city council, the national government is also to blame for the problems at home. According to the council, "the management from the government is anything but clear" in both the social domain (decentralization) and the new environmental law. Leiden wants to discuss this with The Hague. The council fears that otherwise work in the city will no longer match what Leiden residents want. Municipalities are in danger of becoming implementers of national policy in both policy areas. The municipality prefers to see trust in civil servants who feel responsible for their work, are 'owners' of a file and work together constructively. In addition, rules are not sacred, the council suggests, but leading. The council wants to find a balance between legality and efficiency: is money handled carefully and does the board achieve what it wants with it? "All this does not alter the fact that the council stands for an organization that is in control and demonstrates that money is spent lawfully." The question now is: how?
 Board of Directors critical of accountants

Load Date: January 11, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")