Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Leidse Van Gaal new councilor Leiderdorp
Leidsch Dagblad
August 22, 2023 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 2
Length: 483 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


To lead
The Leiderdorp PvdA-GroenLinks faction nominates Leiden's Gebke van Gaal as successor to councilor Bob Vastenhoud, who resigned at the end of June. If the city council agrees, it will start this task on September 11.
The departure of GroenLinks member Vastenhoud came at a favorable time for his party colleague Van Gaal. She started as a deputy in Flevoland in November last year, but was unable to remain so due to BBB's huge election victory. The party joined forces with VVD, ChristenUnie, SGP and PVV. “BBB had become much larger than expected, which created a completely different setting than expected. BBB did not want to join us, and we had excluded PVV and FvD," says Van Gaal. "Shortly afterwards I saw that Bob was leaving. Of course I know him well, so I inquired with him and also indicated that they could call me if had to be replaced. Well, one thing led to another."
Vastenhoud had taken on a substantial portfolio (including housing, spatial planning, the energy transition, waste and the transformation of the Baanderij), but had to conclude shortly before the summer that this was too much of a good thing. Moreover, he got into trouble several times; This is how he received a (rejected) motion of censure. He decided it wasn't worth the strain it put on his family life.
Apparently redistributing the tasks somewhat was not an option, but that has changed now. Van Gaal will discuss it in the near future with the other aldermen, Daan Binnendijk (CDA) and Herman Romeijn (Local Party Leiderdorp), and mayor Laila Driessen. "He had a very large portfolio and very tough files," says Van Gaal. "I don't think it will be a complete carousel, but we have to look at that carefully."
But Van Gaal also has a broad interest and is happy to take on a big bale of hay. As a GroenLinks member, she is also looking forward to the challenges in the Vastenhoud portfolio. "The energy transition is really a major issue, housing construction, the physical domain... I think it is very important to give it shape. It expresses how you live together, and also how residents can live together comfortably. And the waste portfolio. Everyone always says it's 'exciting', but I think it has something to it. I find it very interesting and the number of kilos really needs to be reduced considerably."
Markets
GroenLinks faction leader Olaf McDaniel speaks in a press release of 'an excellent candidate'. 'Gebke van Gaal is a woman, a member of GroenLinks and she comes from the region. She also has a CV to match. As an experienced director, she is at home in many markets. In Flevoland, sustainability, climate, Environmental Act, participation and administrative innovation were among her tasks. In addition, Leiden is also financially and economically literate.'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")