Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Drawing lessons from an expensive tax error
Friesch Dagblad
February 4, 2022 Friday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 445 words
Body


The new cabinet is already dealing with a setback of several billion euros. Last year, the Supreme Court ruled that the levy of fictitious returns on assets of one million euros and higher was unlawful. The problem is this. The tax authorities levies tax on the return on assets. In 2001 it was decided not to base this levy on the actual return. That would be too complicated, so the tax authorities used a fixed and fictitious percentage.
This was not an issue, as long as the interest rates were high and the returns correspondingly. But in recent years, savings interest rates have fallen towards zero, and so people with a large amount of capital in a savings account pay considerably more tax than their return. And that is unlawful, according to the Supreme Court.
This case sheds light on a current issue: how much tax do you levy on wealth? After all, inequality in the Netherlands is not about income - high and low are quite close together - it is more about assets.
Isn't it fairer to tax more on wealth and less on income? This makes work more rewarding, which is good for labor productivity. And it makes saving less attractive, which will lead to more consumption.
Now that a new form of tax on large assets must be urgently sought, this also offers an opening for political debate about the balance between taxing income and wealth.
There is only one very big, practical but. In principle, the tax authorities could well have levied the actual capital return. The major problem is that the Tax Authorities' IT systems are not able to do this quickly.
The Tax Authorities have been struggling with problems for years due to the tangle of IT systems, many of which are outdated. As a result, the service cannot process acute problems or develop political ambitions. This is a problem that affects the central government more broadly. For example, the Environmental Act, which was actually supposed to come into effect in 2018, has been postponed again this week, partly due to IT problems.
It is actually shameful that our digital infrastructure is so poorly managed that it causes political frustration and implementation problems. While our physical infrastructure is managed by our own organization, IT management is fragmented across all kinds of services.
It would be good if the central government learned from this levy issue that ICT management needs to be better and more tightly regulated. Fortunately, there is now a State Secretary for Digitalization who can be held politically responsible for this.
mainredactie@frieschdagblad.nl
The inequality in the Netherlands is not in income, it is more in assets
Link to PDF

Load Date: February 3, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")