Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Lisse has her finances in good order
Leidsch Dagblad
June 8, 2017 Thursday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 007
Length: 495 words
Byline: Ed Olivier
Body


  B and W opt for a second fitness square
Lisse “I hope that in the next term of office I can solve the financial problems left behind by this council.” Lisse councilor Evert Jan Nieuwenhuis dares to make that joke, because he knows that Lisse's finances are in good shape. The annual accounts for 2016 show a gain of almost 1.6 million euros. And the framework memorandum for 2018 - a document indicating the main policy points and financial frameworks - also contains 200,000 euros per year for new policy of the next municipal council.
The fact that Lisse was left with 1,565,000 euros last year is remarkable in a year when the municipality had to make every effort in the social domain and prepared for 'reverse collection' of waste. In addition, the civil service had to be prepared for the merger with Teylingen and Hillegom. Nieuwenhuis looks back on it with satisfaction and is proud of the civil servants who have done all that work.
Fitplein
 Of the remaining money, 390,000 euros will be used to undo the postponement of green renovations. 51,000 euros are available for playgrounds and 75,000 for preparations for the introduction of the new Environmental Act. With this law, the central government wants to simplify and merge the rules for spatial development. The Municipal Executive has earmarked an amount of 25,000 euros for a second fitness square, because the first fitness square on the Van Lyndenweg is used very intensively and the reactions to it are positive. The council wants to save the 1 million euros that are left, or - as it is called in municipal language - add it to the general reserves.
Town hall square
For this year, Lisse is heading for a positive balance of 247,000 euros. The first so-called 'interim report' to the municipal council shows that 200,000 euros of this has already been spent, including on the Mare group, the Lisse retail vision and the green policy plan. However, Nieuwenhuis is not worried. In the past, he says, the first interim report always looked bleaker than the second and final annual accounts. In the framework memorandum for the years 2018-2021, the city council has allocated 1.2 million euros for the redesign of the square in front of the town hall. If Nieuwenhuis has his way, this will be an exemplary project in the field of sustainability and climate control. “We have already set the bar quite high in the new Port Area, but it can still be raised a bit higher,” said the councilor.
Precario
A problem looms on the distant horizon. In 2022, the precario tax, the municipal tax on cables and pipes in the ground, will be abolished. The municipality of Lisse will gain 2.1 million euros. Nieuwenhuis sees opportunities to solve this for a third of the multi-year budget. For the rest, the precario levy will have to be recovered through new cuts or increases in property taxes.

Load Date: June 7, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")