Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Local government in dire straits; research The Netherlands has gone from a country of councilors to a country of mayors
Leidsch Dagblad
November 1, 2022 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 7
Length: 1139 words
Byline: Peter Schat
Body


research The Netherlands has gone from a country of councilors to a country of mayors
Municipal councils are closest to the citizen. However, making democracy function properly locally is still a long way off. The order deserves adjustments, but which direction it should go is uncertain. Researchers give their view on the gloom.
The Hague
'There has been concern about local democracy for years,' immediately states the foreword to the research volume 'About local democracy - Municipal governments under pressure', launched on Monday by the Montesquieu Institute. Renowned researchers were drafted for the collection, who, after this year's municipal elections, mapped out the state of affairs regarding decentralization and local democracy. Conclusion: tough weather for local government.
One of them, political scientist Hans Vollaard from Utrecht University, puts the gloom into perspective. Turnout appeared to have fallen by another four percentage points at this year's elections (to 51 percent), which indicated decreased confidence and an increased group of dropouts compared to four years earlier. Vollaard notices that much of the gloom about local democracy is that things are going less or worse. So everything used to be better. But what exactly are we comparing? 'If it is less than in 1985, is it bad? Or if things are better now than in 1935, is that a relief?', he asks as rhetorical questions.
He and fellow researchers compared the interest of citizens in local politics from 1982 to 2022. This year's results have not yet been fully processed, but it appears that interest fluctuates somewhat, but is at the same level in 2022 as in 1982. So it was just as bad then, at least not significantly better.
He does note, however, that municipalities have acquired quite a few additional responsibilities in those forty years. 'So it wouldn't have been illogical if more people were more interested.'
Councilor Hekking
Because, as other researchers argue in the collection, quite a bit has changed recently. After the war, the Netherlands was still described as a country for councilors, but since the corona crisis it is better to speak of a country for mayors. Archetypal councilors such as Schaefer and Hekking no longer determine the image. "Hardly any councilors become well-known talk show table guests, while an increasing number of mayors no longer need an introduction," writes Geerten Boogaard, professor by special appointment of decentralized government at Leiden University.
He places the seeds of that change in the Municipal Act of 1992, in which the discussion about the mayor directly elected by the people has been resolved and the municipal council in fact chooses him. The office was subsequently invested with powers, which allowed the mayor to become a local sheriff. Because in the event of disruption of public order or fear thereof, the mayor can act independently and direct the police. And also when combating subversion by organized crime, a mayor can act faster and more effectively than the judiciary, which has much more to prove in criminal law.
The corona crisis made it clear what factor the mayor had developed into. With the 25 most important ones in the Security Council and their chairman Hubert Bruls as a frequently seen face on TV. Due to the corona crisis, more and more Dutch people know that the mayor decides whether public events can go ahead - in 2018 this was 48 percent and in 2020 62 percent - but thirty percent now also think that the mayor decides whether an asylum seeker center will be established somewhere. "And that's a bit simplistic," says Boogaard.
Cooperation
The fact that the primacy shifts from councilors to mayors does not immediately put local democracy in dire straits. The causes of this lie in the outsourcing of numerous national tasks to municipalities and the increase in inter-municipal collaborations. On average, a municipality participates in 27. This means that administrators spend more and more meeting time on this than on managing their own municipality. Plus there is no democratic control over what happens in all these partnerships. Because the council is only the boss in its own municipality and all those administrators together cannot go back to their own municipal council to hear what it thinks about every decision they make.
In short, what room is left to determine local policy? On the one hand, municipal authorities are trapped by regional cooperation and on the other hand, they are often no more than a conduit for what The Hague has devised for them.
Professor of Public Administration Klaartje Peters at Maastricht University lists the major problems that municipal councils have on their plate and which they can only marginally fiddle with: less money from The Hague, tasks in youth care and social support, tasks for housing construction, energy transition and climate, shelter of asylum seekers and implementation of the Environmental Act. "Nobody knows what all this will mean for the already overburdened municipalities," said Peters.
Polarization
Then there are social obstacles in the way. Politics is fragmenting, more and more parties are emerging, voters are more mobile, confidence in government institutions fluctuates, the people are polarizing and individuals form their own opinions instead of having them chewed over by institutions. Gesomber cannot cope with all that. 'It also encourages action. It crackles a lot. There are many good, innovative initiatives, sometimes against oppression," according to the foreword quoted earlier.
In none of the authors one finds death in the pot. In fact, they are all optimistic, but they recognize that the current democratic system needs to be adapted to a number of new realities. For example, the changed position of the mayor will have to be embedded in legislation and solutions must be found for the gap that regionalization leaves in democratic control. However, the most important thing for local democracy remains that something must remain to be decided. Because with excessively limited administrative room for maneuver, there is little left for the municipal executive, municipal councils and voters.
Montesquieu Institute
'For local democracy - Municipal authorities under pressure' is number 20 of the Montesquieu Series, published by the Montesquieu Institute/Boom Juridisch, 114 pages, ISBN 978-94-6212-739-5, price 21.50 euros.
The parliamentary democracy knowledge center bears the name of the 18th-century French nobleman on whose ideas the current political structure of Western democracies is partly based.
On Friday, December 9, the collection will be presented in The Hague and handed over to Mayor Jan van Zanen of that municipality.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 31, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")