Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Local politics is gaining momentum
Leidsch Dagblad
March 24, 2018 Saturday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: APPENDIX; Page 002
Length: 1217 words
Byline: Text: Frans van den Berg Photo: Caspar Huurdeman
Body


  Four years ago, there were fears of a turnout in the municipal elections of less than fifty percent. It then remained stable at 54 percent. On Wednesday, turnout rose again for the first time since 1994, to 55 percent. Are local politics gaining momentum?
Tom van der Meer, professor of political science at the University of Amsterdam, does not want to speak of a trend break. “Since compulsory attendance was abolished in 1970, turnout has fallen. It has been fairly stable over the last twelve years. Calving was small four years ago. Now a slightly higher turnout, but I don't see that as a break in the trend. We are still fluctuating around fifty percent.”
Four years ago, it was expected that turnout would drop to 43 percent. During the elections for the province and the European Parliament, it was already common for more people to stay at home than to vote. On Wednesday, more than 55 percent of voters went to the polls. In Alphen aan den Rijn, turnout even shot up from 41 to over 56 percent. Beverwijk had the lowest turnout in North Holland four years ago and has now seen the figure climb from 43 to 46 percent. Den Helder, Purmerend, Alkmaar, Zaandam, Hilversum, Haarlem, Zandvoort and Leiden. Turnout went up everywhere. Yet there were also decliners such as Texel, Hollands Kroon, Blaricum and Kaag en Braassem. A large number of people still vote with a national perspective. National trends influence local results. “The gain of GroenLinks and the loss of PvdA, for example, correspond with the national picture. Cabinet parties as a whole have not lost as hard as in 2014, but it is still very early to expect an evaluation of the cabinet from voters,” says Van der Meer. Yet it is striking that D66 has plummeted in many municipalities. A punishment for government participation? And the SP has not yet overcome the crisis.
Fragmentation
Parties such as Denk and PVV did participate in some municipalities. In addition, new local parties have emerged. Large national parties are losing ground locally, while the number of council seats for local parties has increased nationally. Here too there are exceptions such as Alkmaar, Hollands Kroon and Zandvoort where the local parties made concessions. Just as nationally, the arrival of new parties leads to leveling locally. “Or, expressed negatively, fragmentation. Coalition formation becomes more difficult, but you also get more broad coalitions. Sometimes from SP to VVD. Such a broad coalition makes it more difficult for parties in the municipal council to profile themselves. That can in turn create space for new parties that claim to stand up for certain interests,” Van der Meer explains the increasing number of parties. In Zaanstad there are now thirteen parties in the municipal council, Haarlem and Amsterdam twelve, Alkmaar eleven, Purmerend ten and Leiden and Hilversum nine. When new parties participate, this usually creates more excitement and therefore a higher turnout. In Amsterdam there were 38 lists to choose from. So something for everyone. Research has shown in recent years that young people and immigrants in particular vote less. Neighborhoods with many residents with purchasing power or with many elderly people score best. Many elderly people still see voting as a duty, while young people are much more difficult to reach and often do not know what is going on locally. “With specific parties like Denk you get more voters with a migration background to the polls. And young people have just had the House of Representatives elections.” Yet the gap with the House of Representatives elections is large. Then 81.9 percent voted. But wouldn't you expect voters to find the city council the most important thing?! After all, these are plans that affect their immediate living environment. Van der Meer: “It is always said that the municipality is the cradle of democracy, but that is not the case. National politics is the benchmark for most voters. That's where the frames are placed. That's where most policy is made. It is not surprising that voters find these elections the most important.”
Disappointment
The turnout was actually disappointing for Leiden political scientist Ralf de Jong. “I thought that the combination of a referendum and municipal council would attract even more people. Vote twice in one round. You see that the rise depends on many factors. How much do parties and municipalities advertise before the polls? How's the weather? And what is the involvement of national politicians? I have the impression that national leaders have shown themselves more than four years ago. That also leads to cynicism: people who do not vote or consciously choose a local party.” De Jong thinks it is a shame that municipal politics is not important to many people. “While municipalities are becoming increasingly important. More and more tasks have been transferred from the government and in four years' time the Environmental Act will be added. The budget and influence are then greater than ever. But these are difficult, complicated topics. That is not easy for politicians or for voters. Then you see that the campaigns mainly focus on themes such as housing, traffic or a local item. You see that local parties are responding to this.” Julien van Ostaaijen of Tilburg University has done a lot of research into voting behavior in recent years. Research shows that voters cannot be influenced with a short four-yearly campaign around the elections. Many people simply don't see the point of that election. “People are more inclined to vote as they have more interest and confidence in politics, have more knowledge of politics and are more satisfied with the municipal government. A larger and closer social network can also increase the propensity to turn out,” he refers to the high turnout in small municipalities.
Confusing
An organization like ProDemos also tries to involve voters more in politics. A national campaign has been launched to get more people to the polls. “Electoral guides also help, but the threshold remains high. For many people it was confusing that they had received two call-up cards. That explanation could have been better,” notes project leader Huri Sahin. “We also provide courses to better understand the municipal council. The by-product of this is that new candidates for parties emerge and in some cases even new local parties. It is important to permanently involve citizens in politics and door-to-door papers and regional newspapers play a major role in this.” The municipal council may be becoming increasingly important, but there is still a good chance that in four years more people will stay at home than will vote. Especially when voters notice that their vote has made no difference. Municipalities such as Den Helder, Purmerend and Beverwijk are already below that limit. Is legitimacy then at risk? Who are those councilors still there on behalf of? That is not an item for Van der Meer. “It only really becomes a problem when certain groups in society no longer vote en masse. Then it becomes worrying, but that is not yet the case.”
 Turnout higher, but will it last?
 More fragmentation in the municipal council

Load Date: March 24, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")