Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Social risks' upon introduction of the Environmental Act
NRC
October 12, 2022 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 2
Length: 568 words
Byline: Rik Rutten

Jorit Verkerk
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
ICT advisory board
The Senate previously announced that approval of the Environmental Act depends on the ICT advice now issued.
COMPLETE TEXT:
If the government introduces the Environmental Act on January 1, 2023, it will probably lead to significant problems for the granting of permits, such as delays in construction projects. The government's ICT watchdog, the ICT Assessment Advisory Board, warns of "social risks" if Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Order, CDA) sticks to the implementation date.
The advice published on Tuesday is yet another alarm signal about the Environmental Act, which was devised twelve years ago to simplify spatial planning and related procedures and permits. This is a major revision of the law, which has been postponed time and time again in recent years. The Senate, which is the last to agree to the introduction, has previously stated that approval depends on the ICT advice that has now been issued.
The Advisory Board does not want to burn itself with the question of whether postponement is inevitable: that is "a difficult dilemma". But the report is unrelenting: if the cabinet wants to opt for introduction in 2023, it must quickly get to work on "social reduce risks".
The fear is that the granting of permits could come to a standstill if the systems do not work properly. For example, Neprom, the umbrella organization for project developers, recently called it "irresponsible" to introduce the law on January 1. Builders fear that housing construction may be delayed because the new system is not implemented smoothly.
The suppliers of the software also have doubts. And civil servants also appear concerned about the introduction: a poll by I&O Research and civil servants' trade magazine Binnenlands Bestuur in September showed that seven in ten municipal civil servants hope for a new postponement.
The Advisory Board therefore writes that the sum of problems may also lead to "the conclusion that the social risks of the entry into force of the Environmental Act on or shortly after 1 January 2023 are too great".
In that case, according to the council, it is obvious that the cabinet will take a lot of time to reconsider the law. It may then take years before the Environmental Act is fully implemented.
The major stumbling block is the digital system on which the Environmental Act must run. This Digital System Environmental Act (DSO) has been causing problems in design and testing for a long time.
Critical advice before
The Advisory Board has issued extremely critical advice about the DSO several times in recent years. Since the last advisory report, there has still not been sufficient testing and the tests that have been carried out have been carried out "with insufficient quality", the new report states.
The Advisory Board also notes that many municipalities have now announced that they are using alternative solutions, whereby they want to temporarily use the old and the new method of granting permits simultaneously in order to prevent problems. This should prevent the systems from breaking down, but "at the expense of user-friendliness, understandability and usability", according to the council. Moreover, it is unclear whether permits drawn up in this way are legally valid.
The Senate will vote on the Environmental Act in the coming weeks.
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 11, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")