Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Maximum speed on N206 will not increase to 80; traffic Province ignores Katwijk's wish to reduce speed to Noordwijk
Leidsch Dagblad
December 1, 2023 Friday
City


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 10
Length: 421 words
Byline: Hielke Biemond
Body


traffic Province ignores Katwijk's wish to reduce speed to Noordwijk
The province ignores the Katwijk political call to reduce the speed on the N206 to Noordwijk from 100 to 80 kilometers per hour.
Katwijk
This is evident from answers to written questions from councilors René Slootweg (Municipal Interests) and Tom Reedijk (PvdA), which took more than four months to arrive.
The 'road design' of this section of the N206 - between the Nieuwe Roversbrug in Katwijk and the Noordwijk municipal border - does not give reason for a speed reduction, according to the provincial government. 'The road looks like a 100 km/h road. A lower speed limit would not be credible for road users and its actual effect would be limited.'
The provincial government also expects that such a proposal would lead to a negative advice from the police. 'Enforcement of the maximum speed will therefore be minimal.'
Coalition agreement
The Katwijk municipal council of DURF, ChristenUnie and SGP has included in the coalition agreement the wish to reduce the speed on this section of the N206 to 80 kilometers per hour. The reason for this is the increasing traffic on the road. This has led to complaints about noise pollution for years, especially from the adjacent Hoornes-Rijnsoever district.
The province responded by laying quieter asphalt, but this loses its effect due to wear and tear. It is also increasingly being replaced by regular asphalt during repairs.
According to the provincial government, on paper no noise standards have been exceeded. That doesn't say much, it immediately adds. 'Under the current Noise Pollution Act, noise standards only apply to roads during their construction or thorough reconstruction. (...) There will be no further testing afterwards.'
'The noise level can therefore increase over time due to autonomous traffic growth, speeding and too loud vehicles, but this has no legal consequences.'
Enforcement Gap
The province calls this paper reality 'the enforcement gap'. The introduction of the new, comprehensive Environmental Act on January 1 should change this.
'The unbridled increase in noise will be curbed by testing against the 'noise production ceilings' that will apply to all provincial roads. These maximum values ​​will be measured periodically and measures will be taken if there is a risk that they will be exceeded.
Not credible for road users
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 30, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")