Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=More noise around N-roads
Friesch Dagblad
June 22, 2022 Wednesday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 409 words
Byline: Wybe Fraanje
Highlight: Leeuwarden The annoyance caused by traffic noise near provincial roads has increased in five years. More kilometers, more cars, more homes and a different measuring method are the main causes.
Body


All provincial roads were measured over a length of 623 kilometers, including 195 kilometers of road sections with more than three million vehicles. In 2016, this amounted to 483 kilometers, of which 96 kilometers were road sections with more than three million vehicles. At that time, parts of the Sintrale As and the N381, among others, had not yet been included.
The province is obliged to draw up a noise map and an associated action plan to limit nuisance every five years. The new map (2021) shows the development compared to the previous one from 2016. Because measurement data from 2020 and 2021 might give a distorted picture because there were long periods with significantly less traffic as a result of the lockdowns, the data from 2019 are used.
environmental code
The action plan will identify exactly what specific bottlenecks there are and where the priorities lie to combat nuisance. The province is still waiting to form and adopt an action plan, deputy Avine Fokkens said on Tuesday. "We are waiting for the new Environmental Act."
This is not unwise, because with the introduction of the Environmental Act (which replaces numerous laws and regulations in the field of the environment and spatial planning and is currently before the Senate), certain things will change in noise legislation. Currently, noise around roads may increase annually as a result of an increase in car traffic, but soon there will be a ceiling.
The current action plan runs until 2023 and only applies on the basis of the previous noise map from 2016. The new action plan must come into effect in 2024.
Twenty road sections
There are twenty road sections in Fryslân with more than three million car movements per year. The province is legally obliged to create a noise map for this, but Friesland has decided to also include all other provincial roads. To measure noise pollution, data such as traffic intensity, speed, composition and intensity of traffic and type of road surface are required. But also topographical data such as the location of the road, noise barriers, buildings and homes.
An overview of noise pollution is necessary in built-up areas, but also in quiet areas. Fryslân has eight: the Wadden, the IJsselmeer coast, the Lauwersmeer, the Alde Feanen, De Deelen, Delleburen, the Fochteloërveen and the Drents-Friese Wold.
The action plan will identify exactly what specific bottlenecks there are
Link to PDF

Load Date: June 22, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")