Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Expand and dislodge more or less?
Friesch Dagblad
April 7, 2022 Thursday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 458 words
Byline: Jan Ybema
Highlight: Leeuwarden Farmers should be able to expand more and chase away geese more easily. This is the opinion of agricultural clubs in response to the new Environmental Regulation.
Body


Farms must also be able to expand within 250 meters of very vulnerable and acidification-sensitive nature. Jan Teade Kooistra of LTO Noord said this on Wednesday evening during a meeting of Members of Parliament about the new Environmental Regulation. It states that expansion close to such nature, which is mainly located in Southeast Friesland, is prohibited without an environmental permit. “That will result in additional costs and procedures. We like that, because the nitrogen issue is already causing significant administrative problems," says Kooistra.
LTO also wants more space to shoot and chase geese. The province withdrew the rule that banning chasing 150 meters around meadow bird areas after farmers' resistance. But Kooistra wants to scrap even more rules. For example, the regulation still states that chasing is prohibited up to 150 meters around the Natura 2000 area and around the sleeping places of geese. "Farmers can therefore be careful not to take care of the skea, but they can also get their own skeaf allowance" if it does not concern goose foraging areas.
Short end
Nature clubs believe that the environment and landscape are getting the short end of the stick in the new regulation. Arnoud de Vries of the Frisian Environmental Federation was disappointed with the two hectares that goat and pig farms and other non-land-based farms are allowed to expand under the new rules. In the old regulation it was one and a half
hectares. "This is not in keeping with the natural
inclusivity that the province says it strives for."
Public interest
According to him, it also becomes too easy to build in nature and meadow bird areas. That is allowed if it is in the 'public interest', but that is too vague, according to De Vries. "That 'oanmerklik iepenbeer is important' and there should be a question about what 'oanmerklik' is," also argued Sietske Inberg of Milieudefensie Leeuwarden. ."
Deputy Avine Fokkens acknowledged that the new rules are less strict in places than the current ones. "It fits in with the philosophy of the new Environmental Act not to assume 'no, that is not possible, unless', but 'yes, it is possible, provided.' It offers municipalities more space for their own interpretation."
Month delay
The States found the regulation, the response note (324 pages) and the other 41 attached documents to be a bit much to digest. They agreed with Fokkens to convene a session with officials to ask questions and to postpone the decision on the new regulation for a month.
That you were in good extra costs and prose-
duere-
lee
Jan Teade
Kooistra
Link to PDF

Load Date: April 6, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")