Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=More solar panels in 'protected cityscape'; dilemma Leiden relaxes controversial welfare policy
Leidsch Dagblad
November 3, 2023 Friday
City


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 326 words
Byline: Loman Leefmans
Body


dilemma Leiden relaxes controversial welfare policy
In Leiden it will be easier and less bureaucratic to install solar panels on houses that fall under the heading 'protected cityscape'.
To lead
The local building regulations that sometimes get in the way of making homes more sustainable are being relaxed. The municipality also makes the relevant rule booklet more accessible. The city council decided this in response to various issues in this area that have been occurring for years.
It is about the dilemma that many monumental Leiden city districts have faced in recent years. Homeowners wanted to make their homes more sustainable, but this was not allowed in neighborhoods that are branded as 'protected cityscapes'. Or at least not in plain sight.
To break this contradiction, the city council had its own rules reassessed by Buro Schout, which also included discussions with civil servants, architects and residents from the neighborhoods mentioned. This showed that the local welfare bill did indeed pose a limitation on making older Leiden houses more sustainable. But not to the extent that immediate intervention had to be done.
Changes will come, with sustainability winning over the historical appearance. 'The Welstandsnota is being amended to expand the options for installing solar panels on roof surfaces with dormer windows in a protected cityscape', as an example is given.
Moreover, the rules in that offending memorandum will be easier to find for the residents of Leiden, probably via the municipality's website.
In the longer term, the entire welfare policy will be overhauled when the new Environmental Act comes into force.
It was recently determined that the color of the solar panels no longer matters and does not have to be the same as the color of the roof tiles.
Sustainability wins over historical appearance
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 2, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")