Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Measurement points for flight noise'; Coalition party Municipal Interests wants Katwijk's municipal council to take action after all
Leidsch Dagblad
July 29, 2021 Thursday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 461 words
Byline: Hielke Biemond
Body


Coalition party Municipal Interests wants Katwijk's municipal council to take action after all
Katwijk
The municipality of Katwijk should still have measuring points for noise pollution from aircraft at Schiphol Airport. This is what councilor Geert Diemer of the coalition party Municipal Interests argues.
Two years ago, the municipal council ignored an advice from the West Holland Environment Agency to take action on this, because the costs would not outweigh the benefits. According to Diemer, the arguments that Katwijk put forward at the time against installing measuring points are now 'outdated or incomplete'.
Participation options
Although it is possible to determine noise pollution, it is not possible to change it, the municipal council argued in 2019. This is now changing, the councilor notes. Not only will residents around Schiphol have more opportunities to participate, the new Environmental Act also offers opportunities, according to Diemer.
"To calculate noise pollution by an individual resident, flying noise will from now on be added to the noise production from other sources," he wrote to the municipal council. 'This provision will enable residents of Katwijk to take legal action and therefore place Schiphol under the authority of the judge. That was still a distant prospect two years ago. However, the judge will only be sensitive to objective measurement data.
Higher
Two years ago, the municipal council provided lighting for Katwijk because landing aircraft flew higher. "That argument is correct in itself, but incomplete and therefore irrelevant," says Diemer. 'It ignores the shift in aircraft movements from areas with many inhabitants to areas with few inhabitants. As a result, the nuisance in Katwijk will increase considerably, even if the aircraft fly higher than now.
Finally, according to him, the municipal council wrongly stated in 2019 that it can also use measurement data from Noordwijk or Leiden to determine nuisance, because the aircraft flying over there make as much noise as in Katwijk. 'But the total number of flight movements cannot be determined this way,' Diemer emphasizes. 'And that does not mean the total nuisance from flying in Katwijk. This will hinder residents who want to defend themselves against non-compliance with the noise standards that apply to Schiphol.'
Cost
Gemeentebelangen therefore believes it is necessary to have two measuring points in the municipality: one north of Katwijk and Rijnsburg, and one in Valkenburg. These costs together approximately 25,000 euros per year, Diemer has calculated. 'Is the municipal council planning to install it now?' he wants to know. 'If not, why not?'
'Your arguments are outdated
or incomplete'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: July 28, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")