Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Mienskip' is a good basic attitude for the Environmental Act
Friesch Dagblad
December 30, 2023 Saturday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 1022 words
Byline: Theo Klein
Highlight: Especially in view of the enormous challenges involved
The Netherlands stands for the arrival of the new one
Environmental law is a good thing according to landscape architect Peter de Ruyter. “Not only does everything add up
one-stop shop, it also provides a framework for an integrated approach to the living environment."
Body


According to De Ruyter, one of the biggest challenges the Netherlands will face in the coming decades is how to connect rural and urban areas. “That connection is necessary, given the available space. But that is a difficult puzzle to solve. Then it is good that there is legislation that provides an integral framework for this."
According to him, this framework is also a requirement because the connection between many of the challenges facing the Netherlands is becoming increasingly clear. “The loss of biodiversity, climate change, but also the housing shortage and the limits we face in agriculture: only an integrated approach is effective. Partial solutions often exacerbate the problem in another area."
Also positive: citizens and companies are more likely to be involved in planning. “There is more room for participation and co-creation. What you often see happening now is that a municipality organizes an information evening for citizens when a plan has already more or less been finalized. Then there is actually no room for participation anymore."
Not only are citizens involved at an earlier stage, health aspects of a new plan are also included in the new law. “The application of pesticides, for example, now falls between all regulations. This can play a more prominent role in decision-making from now on."
According to him, the new law also fits in well with the Frisian mienskips attitude. "Such a sense of community, doing it together, is a good basic attitude for the Environmental Act."
Long term planning
According to De Ruyter, in recent decades there has been a lack of vision and long-term planning in the Netherlands when it comes to the design of the landscape. "The question we have to ask ourselves is: where do we want to go as a country? I advocate taking the landscape and cultural history as a starting point and using water and soil as a guideline for the design. For example, we have developed this for Fryslân in the future perspective Natuerlik Fryslân 2050. This is based on the various Frisian cultural landscapes and looks at how things interact. For example, a low water level in the peat meadow area in Central Fryslân not only has consequences for the foundations of houses in the area. It also causes saline groundwater to advance into the clay shell and desiccation in the sandy areas, because the Lower Middle - as an increasingly sinking bathtub - will suck in more and more water from the environment.
De Ruyter sees the Environmental Act as a good instrument, although the current polarization in the Netherlands, for example between nature and farmers' interests, is a factor to take into account. "It's about an open conversation, listening to each other's points of view and being prepared to make adjustments. But it does start with knowledge. If you want to take all aspects into account, you must have the right knowledge: how has a landscape grown, what is the status of biodiversity, what is the influence of the changing groundwater level."
De Ruyter recently noticed that knowledge can make people enthusiastic during a workshop he held in Nes in Noardeast-Fryslan for entrepreneurs in the tourism sector. “I told them about the landscape in which they live and work, the tasks and their history. "That is interesting to give to our guests," was their response."
Anesthetic
In the run-up to the new Environmental Act, Frisian nature organizations pointed out a greater risk of cluttering the landscape. De Ruyter does not share that concern. "In recent years, there has been enough clutter under the old laws and regulations. Just look at the numbness of the landscape along the highways. And objection procedures will remain possible in the future. The purpose of the law is that we sit down together at the start of a project, instead of something being pulled out of the hat and an industrial estate suddenly appearing in the landscape."
The new law also includes the so-called 'right to challenge' (rtc). A group of residents can take over tasks from the government if they think things can be improved. De Ruyter believes that transitional areas such as the eastern edge of the Alde Feanen and Rottige Meenthe are particularly suitable for RTC. “Now agriculture and nature are strictly separated. This does not work out well for either nature or agriculture. You hope that the right to challenge will stimulate young farmers in an area to jointly look at what the challenges are in an area and how to tackle them together."
Value consolidation
De Ruyter also finds the Environmental Act an interesting framework for thinking about 'value parcellation' or land consolidation 2.0, something he advocates. This will not be the enormous reallocation of land that formed the basis for modern agriculture after the Second World War. "With land consolidation 2.0, I argue for a realignment based on the question: is every agricultural business type in the right place? We are now at a point where some farmers are stopping and others want to extensify or switch. This is difficult with the current high land prices. That is why I argue for a new land policy with a provincial land bank. The bank must prevent released land from going to the highest bidder and therefore often intensive farmers. And not only the yield of food should determine the value of the land, but also social values ​​such as the moisture-retaining capacity of the soil. We now label the conversion of agricultural land to nature as depreciation, I prefer to see it as revaluation."
Because social values ​​are not taken into account in the land price, it is now often attractive for a farmer to replace long-term herb-rich grassland with ryegrass. “Ryegrass yields more milk for a farmer. But long-term grassland has a sponge effect and retains moisture much better. In dry summers, which we will increasingly experience, soil that retains moisture well becomes more valuable. Now farmers can save their ryegrass by spraying. But the question is how long this will be allowed with increasingly drier summers."
Now agriculture and nature are strictly separated
Pine tree. That doesn't work out well for either of them
Peter de Ruyter

Load Date: January 23, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")