Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=My favourite
NRC.NEXT
January 25, 2020 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: LIFE; Page 8
Length: 416 words
Byline: Sandra Smallenburg
Body


ABSTRACT
Why did you purchase this artwork? This week: a video work
COMPLETE TEXT:
'It took me more than ten years to purchase a work of art by Eelco Brand. One of the first videos I saw of him, sometime in 2004 or 2005, was of some sort of canola field. I thought it was a fascinating video, but at the time you had to get half a computer to play the video. I continued to follow Eelco Brand, but each time I failed to cross a threshold.
"Until I saw this work at Art Rotterdam in February 2017 - it was at the end of the last day of the fair. I was instantly sold. The growth of the blades of grass shifts like a wave movement from bottom to top, from top to bottom and from left to right. I also find the technology fascinating: each blade is drawn on the computer and Brand has made an animation of it. The carrier of the artwork is only a kind of USB card on which the video file is stored. But I received a nice screen that is in a beautiful wooden frame. It now hangs in our dining room like a moving, digital painting. I put a timer on it so it turns on automatically in the morning.
"The great thing about the video is that I always focus on the growing grass and not on the withering away. In this way, the image fits in with my attitude to life that the glass is always half full. But it just depends on which perspective you look at; an artist who once came to visit us exclaimed upon seeing the video: 'How sad!' The video always gives me hope when things aren't going so well; After the blades wither, green grass always grows back.
"The video is also about my life philosophy of the cyclical. I have worked in the environmental field for many years, looking at how we can live as sustainably as possible from the perspective of ecosystems. Nature also works on the basis of a cycle. One man's waste is another man's food. The trick is how to extract energy flows and materials from nature without disrupting that cycle. I see that idea in this video. Nature dies, but always rises again. There is something meditative about that and it gives me peace. It always works out."
         Sandra Smallenburg
My favourite
Gerrit Jan Hoogland (63), environmental law coordinator at the Netherlands Enterprise Agency, from Rotterdam bought a video work by Eelco Brand. Bought for 3,780 euros at Torch Gallery
Eelco Brand, GR.movi, 2016. Video, edition 1 of 6
Link to PDF

Load Date: January 24, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")