Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental club threatens FrieslandCampina with lawsuit
Friesch Dagblad
July 30, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 379 words
Byline: From our economics editors
Highlight: Leeuwarden Mobilization for the Environment (MOB) wants environmental services to reduce the ammonia standard in the permits of the ten largest industrial ammonia emitters as quickly as possible. According to the environmental club, this also includes FrieslandCampina. If the environmental services do not listen to this request, the environmental club will go to court, says chairman Johan Vollenbroek.
Body


The request has been submitted to
fingering
services to tackle companies
A few weeks earlier, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management sent a letter to MOB stating that the ammonia standard for industry is expected to be tightened in the new Environmental Act from thirty milligrams per cubic meter to five milligrams per cubic meter. The intention is for this law to come into effect on January 1, 2023, but it has been postponed several times. The Senate must still receive an IT assessment of the law in October. "We don't want to wait for that. In the meantime, the provinces are doing nothing," said Vollenbroek.
Top 100
The request has been submitted to environmental services, which include insulation company Rockwool in Roermond, fertilizer company Yara in Sluiskil and chemical company Chemelot in Geleen. At FrieslandCampina this concerns a production location in Veghel. The other branches of the dairy factory (such as the factories in Leeuwarden, Workum and Wolvega) are now not included. All ten companies are on the list of the top 100 ammonia sources in our country that Minister Christianne van der Wal (Nature and Nitrogen) shared with the House of Representatives in April. The rest of this top 100 only contains livestock farms.
The environmental club has also proposed a lower standard of three milligrams per cubic meter for the industry. "The ammonia standard should actually have been lowered ten years ago," says Vollenbroek. "It is very crooked that the government is now chasing farmers and meanwhile letting these ten companies go free."
Nature permits
He calls it a missed opportunity that a nitrogen reduction plan for industry is still missing. MOB has also requested the provinces to revoke the nature permits of the ten companies.
Ammonia is one of the nitrogen compounds that precipitates in nature. Statistics agency CBS previously revealed that in 2020 nitrogen emissions to the air consisted of 124 million kilograms of ammonia. More than 87 percent of this is released in agriculture. MOB has also initiated several lawsuits against the permits of livestock farms. In many cases, the judge ruled that the nature permit had indeed been wrongly issued by the province.
Link to PDF

Load Date: July 29, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")