Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Fewer flat roofs and higher houses
Friesch Dagblad
April 14, 2021 Wednesday


Copyright 2021 NDC mediagroep B.V.All Rights Reserved


Length: 302 words
Body


New environmental plan offers one guideline for building in Leeuwarden villages
Leeuwarden Home owners in the south of the municipality of Leeuwarden will have the opportunity to expand their house to a maximum height of nine meters with the new environmental plan. That is one of the parts of the new environmental plan that was discussed in the municipal council yesterday.
The plan concerns the rural area of ​​the south of the municipality and includes the villages of Reduzum, Friens and Idaard. This is the area where the municipality will be the first to work with the new Environmental Act that should replace the existing zoning plans in the area. The law will tentatively come into effect on January 1. The villages of Wergea, Grou and Jirnsum are not yet included in this plan.
The plan has not yet been finalized and the municipal council can still express its wishes and reservations. Otto van der Galiën (Lijst058) already indicated that he found the maximum building height of nine meters 'too pompous' and has reservations about this. According to the municipality, it is still possible to change the plan by, for example, including the rule for houses in the village centers that renovations must be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Flat roofs
In addition to the building height, a central rule has been included about the prevention of flat roofs. If a homeowner wants to expand, the new section may only have a flat roof if the maximum limit of 50 percent flat roof per house is not exceeded. The council is expected to present its wishes and reservations next Wednesday.
The plan for the south of the municipality serves as a test for the rest. If this works, similar rules will be applied to the other villages in the municipality. The entire municipality must have an environmental plan in place by 2029 at the latest.

Load Date: April 14, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")