Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Fewer rules, more homes? 'Give corporations back their responsibility'
de Volkskrant
January 23, 2020 Thursday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Economics; Page 24, 25
Length: 1685 words
Byline: MARC VAN DEN EERENBEEMT
Highlight: Housing construction is lagging far behind ambitions, according to a forecast for the Economic Institute for Construction (EIB). In the meantime, the housing shortage is increasing and the prices of rental and owner-occupied houses are rising. What to do? Five housing experts make a proposal.
Body


'It is time again for the development of innovative housing options, like in the 1970s. People are now saying again: let's build a lot and, above all, quickly, so much of the same. And then also in the meadow. But it can be much better. We can learn from the past, from projects in which architects were encouraged to develop innovative housing options. A lot is possible with a little prize money and a small contribution to the extra costs.

'At the end of the 1970s, for example, this resulted in the Vier Vierkanten, a district in Alkmaar-Noord. Flexible homes have been built there in high density, for large and small households, in timber frame construction.

'Wood has almost been forgotten as a material for housing construction, but you can use it to build homes quickly and sustainably. And if you immediately plant new trees, it is also good for the environment.

'If you want to get housing construction going in a valuable way, collaboration is essential. You can do this, for example, by bringing together subsidy flows from different ministries, from funds for employment to improvement of roads and public transport. Bring all relevant parties together and results can be achieved quickly.

'Take Panorama Lokaal, for example, a design competition from the Government Architect. Residents of neighborhoods from the 1960s and 1970s, together with corporations, municipalities and organizations such as Staatsbosbeheer and water boards, are looking at how their outdated neighborhood can be tackled. Such as the Schalkwijk district in Haarlem. Or Mosterdhof in Westervoort near Arnhem, a project in which I am involved.

'You renovate a neighborhood in consultation and immediately look at the possibility of increasing the number of homes. This can be done through new construction, but also through the conversion of houses to more desirable housing types. For example, you can convert single-family homes into homes for seniors or singles.

'Housing associations could play an important role in this development. Unfortunately, they have been paralyzed by the many billions in taxes they now have to pay. They have become the government's cash cow. Market parties have quickly left, but housing associations remain involved in a neighborhood. So give corporations back their responsibility.'

'We can scale up further, innovate further and industrialize in housing construction. At Heijmans we have a house brand with homes in which everything is standardized. You only vary with the facade. We now produce around a thousand homes per year. There could be many more. But then the government should not keep changing the rules.

'Suppose you have a biscuit factory and you are setting up a new production line. Then the investment will only pay off if those cookies roll off the production line at full capacity for a few years. It's the same with homes. If you disrupt production with new rules, for example about gas-free construction, the production process will come to a standstill. Then the band stops. It will only start running again once you have adjusted all your molds and processes. Such a sudden change does not invite further scaling up of production. You only do this when you are sure that you can keep the tire running for a fixed period.

'So we need to have minimum periods in the conditions for housing construction. Then innovation and industrialization pay off. We are for sustainability, but with a healthy transition period. For example, five or ten years old. Don't change requirements overnight. And also ensure national uniformity in regulations, do not let each local government come up with its own variant. Then housing construction will continue. This also prevents professionals from having to say goodbye to construction, as in times of crisis. We cannot afford that again. Because we have to have the people who can make it.'

'We don't want temporary housing. These are often too expensive and too temporary in nature. In construction, the concepts of temporary and permanent are becoming increasingly closer together. They are actually already the same. We can already choose high-quality demountable homes.

'Our dry stack houses are constructed from factory-fabricated parts. The construction site has become an assembly location. We build a house in one day, including a kitchen, bathroom and a brick shell. 33 lifting movements are enough for us. And they are also easy to take apart due to the dry connections. In the Randstad they will never move from their place, but in shrinking areas you could easily pick them up and put them somewhere else.

'Our construction process is similar to that in the car industry. We assemble the elements in our factory, in 45 minutes each. By using robots we can now make do with an operator and a quality controller. If you want a different facade, we will adjust it for you in no time. We used to need sixteen people for the same production. While we used to make two hundred homes, we now make a thousand. For example, five homes are now rolling out of our factory every day. And we are going to double production this year anyway.

'The solution for higher construction production does not lie in building in the city, as is currently the intention. You can never build many houses there in a short time, and they also have to be affordable. Let's look for beautiful, new construction locations. If we use 1 percent of our agricultural land for this, we can meet our entire housing need. Not too close to nature reserves, of course. But the Netherlands is still very suitable for many more ground-level homes.'
'Let's look for beautiful, new construction locations'
'There is no one solution, but we must seize as many housing development opportunities as possible. The following applies: do it carefully. Don't rush to fill up the countryside. That open space is a quality of the Netherlands. We don't want to go the way of Belgium. The specter is Flanders, which is largely urbanized.

'We can still do a lot in existing residential areas, for example in the residential areas from the 1970s and the Vinex neighborhoods. We can densify further there, preferably by adding housing types other than the well-known single-family home. This has advantages: people who no longer need a large home can still live in the area. And when they move, a family home will become available again. Moreover, this densification will maintain or even increase the demand for facilities, from schools to a theater. More can also be invested in public space.

'A lot is also possible in the larger cities. Not just near stations, where a lot of construction is already taking place. Even in regular residential areas there are often many opportunities to add homes. In order to be able to innovate there, it is important that housing associations are once again given a major and initiating role.

'In the cities it also applies: construction as differentiated as possible. We are now seeing a boom in the construction of small apartments. We have to be careful not to get too much of that.

'Maybe it is time to impose a new requirement on new-build homes: the ability to easily make them larger or smaller. We have not built enough with the possibility of change.

'If there are still opportunities for expanding a city, then there is a lot to be gained from good public space. Nowadays people are quite willing to give up that private garden, as long as a beautiful communal garden takes its place. Also consider improving public transport to surrounding places, such as between Amsterdam and Almere. Then such a place can also urbanize and become more attractive again.'
'Don't change the requirements
from one day to the next
'Seize the opportunity for densification, build as diversely as possible'
'Participation is a great asset, but it leads to a lack of consistency'
'The Netherlands is not full of people, but of rules. And with people who can enforce anything and everything. It sounds reactionary, but by relaxing or limiting regulations we can achieve a lot in the field of housing and public housing in a short time.

'Many of the obstacles surrounding construction and housing have to do with consultation procedures or conflicting regulations. We will soon receive the new Environmental Act, which provides for more neighborhood participation in construction plans. Participation is a great asset, but I am afraid that this law will only create more complexity.

'An investor or housing association with a plan will first have to obtain the approval of local residents. But residents are usually not interested in new initiatives.

'Municipalities must simply dare to decide again: that is where we will house our young people and that is where we will house our people with little income. And if there is an obstacle circle or a noise contour, we will solve it.

'Or take the home sharing scheme, which stipulates that your benefits will be reduced if you take someone into your home. In my area I see people on social assistance with sky-high housing allowances living in a four-room flat. They really want to rent a room to someone. Don't be so frugal and just make that possible. And can't we just increase that meager tax exemption for renting out rooms for homeowners? It all easily provides extra living space.

'In the Netherlands, there are still millions of square meters of empty offices and agricultural buildings. Why? Find out and make it possible to live there.

'We would also benefit enormously from risk-bearing capital from the government for the reuse of monumental buildings. Banks and investors often just need a little push for financing. Once such a building has been converted into studios, for example, investors are always lining up to buy the entire project.'
75 THOUSAND
The government wants 75,000 homes to be built annually to alleviate the housing shortage. This will not be possible in the coming years, partly due to the nitrogen crisis.

View the original page: page 24, page 25, page 25

Graphic

 
Arno Boon, director of Boei, organization for the repurposing of cultural heritage
Dick van Gameren, architect and professor of housing construction at TU Delft
Ton Hillen, CEO of Heijmans construction company
Anita Blom, specialist in post-war urban planning at the Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands and author of Experimental housing in the Netherlands 1968-1980
Biense Dijkstra, Construction Person of the Year according to trade magazine Cobouw and director of construction group Dijkstra Draaisma
Demolition of an industrial building on one of the eastern islands in Amsterdam, for which homes are being rebuilt.

Load Date: January 22, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")