Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Minister De Jonge decides to postpone the Environmental Act until July
Friesch Dagblad
October 15, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 433 words
Highlight: The Hague Minister Hugo de Jonge (Spatial Planning) is postponing the introduction of the Environmental Act until July next year.
Body


He has long insisted on introducing the law on January 1, 2023, but still thinks it is irresponsible to stick to that date, he told the Senate and House of Representatives.
The reasons for his decision are the extremely critical report of the ICT Assessment Advisory Board, which was drawn up at the request of the increasingly doubtful Senate, and consultation with municipalities, provinces and water boards. The so-called Digital System Environment Act (DSO) - crucial for the implementation of the law - still has 'significant limitations' that will lead to risks if the law is introduced on January 1, the advisory board said in an advice published on Monday. Although it does not specify a date of entry into force, it can be read between the lines that the council considers introduction as of January 1 to be irresponsible.
According to De Jonge, it cannot be avoided that there will be a temporary "small dip" in the number of permits that companies and citizens can apply for when the new law comes into effect. But he wants to prevent this from coming to a complete standstill. The minister wants the give municipalities and provinces that have to work with the DSO more time to practice with the new law and make other preparations. However, he wants to ensure that the knowledge and experience they have already gained is lost. That is why he wants the law don't delay too long.
Extra cost
The minister has long maintained that he wants the law to come into effect early next year, because he also sees major disadvantages if the date is pushed back further. He fears that postponement will only lead to more postponement and that municipalities and provinces that are sufficiently prepared will be at a disadvantage. This also leads to additional costs of "several tens of millions".
The Environmental Act bundles 26 existing laws and more than a hundred rules and regulations in the field of spatial planning. This should make it easier for citizens and companies to apply for a permit and for municipalities to be able to grant those permits more quickly. The law was passed in the House of Representatives in 2015 and by the Senate in 2016. Its introduction has already been postponed four times.
The new law must simplify procedures and that is desperately needed, says the minister. "We have quite a lot to do." De Jonge lists: building 900,000 homes, energy transition and reforming agriculture. "So please let us use the law that is ready with broad parliamentary support."
The new law must simplify procedures and that is desperately needed, says the minister
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 14, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")