Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Netherlands, pay attention!
de Volkskrant
December 4, 2020 Friday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion and Debate; Page 26
Length: 1125 words
Byline: FRED KISTENKAS
Highlight: It looks fantastic, one environmental law that will soon replace all other laws and regulations. But in New Zealand, which has such a law, they are pulling their hair out: it did not become more sustainable.
Body


Environmental law is detrimental to the environment
Another year and then the Environmental Act must come into effect in the Netherlands. It is a law that combines dozens of separate environmental laws into one law and, according to the ministry, that would make everything simpler and better. The latter is now increasingly disputed, certainly also in the circles of environmental lawyers, but people usually do not get much further than some grumbling along the lines of 'managerial jargon' or 'advertising talk'. Of course, you are not yet sure how such an integral law will work out, because it does not yet apply. Moreover, it seemed that no country in the world had experience with such an integral mega law that brings together all sectoral environmental regulations.

But by chance I discovered that far away another Western country has more than 25 years of experience with such a mega law: the New Zealand Environmental Act. This summer, that law was evaluated by an official state committee and the criticism was harsh. It is recommended to repeal the law and simply start working with various sectoral environmental laws again, just like the rest of the world does. Is better for the environment and gives weak values ​​such as biodiversity and water quality its own law with independent ecological minimum values.
What awaits us
So it was essentially a failed experiment, and in retrospect one wonders why it continued for more than two decades. The media already regarded the law as New Zealand's 'worst piece of legislation'. I didn't hear anyone about that in the Netherlands; I think because no comparative law research is done at Dutch universities on a small country on the other side of the world. That is a shame, because this legal criticism from practice gives a good idea of ​​what awaits us.

I think three points of criticism from the state report are also useful to us. First of all, New Zealand simply wants back a Spatial Planning Act, a Nature Conservation Act and other sectoral environmental laws. Exactly as we still have in the Netherlands. Why? Because sectoral assessment against hard environmental standards is better than suggesting an integrated assessment where there is a risk that you will trade away weak values ​​such as biodiversity, air or water quality or consider them less important because in the short term they will yield nothing or at least less than simply clear-cutting and build up.

The second point of criticism seems to be explicitly addressed to the Netherlands: less municipal decentralization please, please have more government direction again. The latter is also reflected in our own National Environmental Vision (NOVI) from a few months ago, but what does our Environmental Act do? Exactly the opposite: municipalities are competent. That decentralism from a neoliberal era of 'council planning' that is coming to an end has led to all kinds of building plans that lost sight of the bigger picture. The environment, and nature in particular, is the first to die and the New Zealand evaluation committee therefore again advocates 'greater use of mandatory national direction by the Minister for the Environment to guide planning at local government level'.

In simple Dutch: establish a Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment again, give the minister the age-old authority of a Planning Key Decision (PKB) again, subject municipal building plans to preventive higher supervision and scale up environmental and spatial planning to a higher level.
Cheerful consent
Exit aldermanic planning, environmental law is also far too complex for the small scale of an average municipality. More government and more region, we now also read in a policy memorandum such as the recent National Environmental Vision: this makes the upcoming Environmental Act, with the municipality as the primary competent authority, outdated before it comes into effect.

Why does no one in the Netherlands know about this New Zealand law evaluation? No idea, but we always hear here that we must have confidence in the municipality as a fellow government, so it will not be good if an evaluation now shows that it is better to have distrust in the municipality as a lower government .

But I think the New Zealand committee may be right. Around the corner from me, the municipality of Zeist cheerfully granted itself permission to cut down a few thousand trees for a construction plan in the Zeisterbos. And the KNVB is now also ready to cut down another 5 hectares of forest a few hundred meters further for more sports fields, parking spaces and accommodations. Does that permission also come so easily if the municipality feels more the hot planning breath of the higher authorities?

A third point from the New Zealand evaluation also indicates that our Environmental Act is old wine in old bottles. The New Zealand State Commission is positive on one point, and that is that 'sustainability' is the leading legal principle in their legal system. All other standards are subordinate to this. This structure was and is innovative and would also help the current transitions and must therefore be maintained.

The law is structured like a pyramid, with the overriding legal principle of sustainable area development at the top. This makes current linking with the most sustainable solution much easier: the law will then never lag behind. And it is precisely this one really positive point that is missing from our Environmental Act, because it does not recognize that dominant legal principle of sustainability.
Soft values, hard test
I think that in New Zealand, based on 25 years of experience, they would say the following about our Environmental Act: 'Yes, we know it, we have already tried it here, merge sectoral environmental laws, throw a staple through it, hope that governments will then be more integrated work, because everything in an integral law, and then simply give the municipality the central authority for already complex policy fields in transition such as spatial planning and the environment.

In integrated considerations, soft values ​​such as nature, biodiversity, water quality and air quality are the first to be lost. So give those soft values ​​a hard sectoral test. Is such an Environmental Act really good legal innovation? No. Certainly not without that legal principle of sustainability. So don't enter it like that. This will soon lead to headlines such as 'Worst legislation ever'.

Report: New directions for resource management in New Zealand, Crown copyright Ministry for the Environment New Zealand 2020.

FRED KISTENKAS is associate professor at Wageningen University and senior researcher in environmental law at Wageningen Environmental Research (WEnR), part of Wageningen University & Research.
Were those trees also cut down as a result of more hot planning policy breathing down our necks?

View the original page: page 26

Graphic

 
The KNVB sports center in the woods near Zeist in 2014.

Load Date: December 3, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")