Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='No more pushing forward'
Leidsch Dagblad
January 15, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: HDC
Length: 771 words
Body


by Roel van Leeuwen GroenLinks wants a quick solution to nuisance wind turbines. Municipalities in waiting room
Haarlem The province that does not want wind turbines must still find space for wind turbines at all costs. At the same time, municipalities that would like to have the turbines on their territory will have to sit in the waiting room for the time being.
        In Amsterdam people are happy to see wind turbines. With the wind turbines, the capital can achieve its goals for sustainable energy generation. For example, the North District has the ambition to generate twenty to forty percent of household electricity use from wind energy by the year 2020. The wind turbines in 'North' will soon have to provide 16,000 households with electricity.
        Other municipalities in the southern part of the province are also investing in wind energy. Diemen, Zaanstad, Haarlemmermeer and Beverwijk have made a concrete offer to the province, together with Amsterdam. They have locations available where the wind turbines can be placed. Locations to which there are no objections from local residents and companies. For example, the North Sea Canal area offers plenty of opportunities for wind energy, say the five municipalities.
        Blocked However, the plans are currently blocked by the Provincial Executive of North Holland. The province, led in this respect by the VVD, pursues a restrictive policy when it comes to wind turbines, arguing that wind turbines not only produce sustainable energy, but above all also cause nuisance.
        Now the provincial government does not have a say in everything. The government has decided that there should be 6,000 MegaWatts of onshore wind in the Netherlands by 2020. In the mutual division between the provinces, North Holland must then have 685.5 MW operational. The province still has to allocate space for 105.5 MW, in addition to the previously allocated 580 MW.
        Wind bank In addition to the additional task, the province is also concerned about the nuisance-causing, solitary wind turbines in the Noordkop. Political parties have recently been pushing for the arrival of a so-called wind bank. A kind of pool in which owners who want to relocate wind turbines put their MegaWatt to trade for rights in new wind turbines elsewhere.
        However, the question is whether the wind bank is Columbus' egg. GS has already established that the owners of the wind turbines cannot be legally forced to participate. And the fact that the province does not have a pot of money available does not make matters any easier. GroenLinks Staten member Titia van Leeuwen had pinned her hopes on the wind bank a few months ago, but she no longer believes in the success of such an initiative. "The experiences with a wind bank in Friesland show that you can work on it for years, but it will not yield anything."
        She calls on GS to accept the offer from the five southern municipalities to facilitate both the relocation of nuisance mills and the additional task. “The restructuring does not require a non-functioning wind bank. The province only needs to actively enter into cooperation.”
        Loser Van Leeuwen expects that in a few years the province will no longer have any say at all when it comes to wind turbines when the new Environmental Act comes into force in 2018. "If the problems with the wrongly positioned turbines in the head still do not have been resolved and the province has not given shape to well-suited new wind farms, North Holland is a double loser. The province must now start solving problems instead of creating them with its strict ban and now constantly pushing everything forward."
        Alternatives VVD Staten Ariane Hoog, however, has little sympathy for the wind turbine plans of the five municipalities. “These are very difficult to achieve. In the North Sea Canal area, for example, we want to keep room for the manufacturing industry. We think that the additional task can be met in the Noordkop."
        Her party remains of the position that there are much better alternatives to onshore wind. "Such as solar energy and focus on sustainable construction and insulation. You do not have to generate energy that you do not use. And sustainable construction in particular provides an economic boost for the hard-hit construction sector on the one hand and for more sustainable living on the other," says Hoog.
                       A delegation from the Provincial Council during a windmill excursion at the 'De Ambtenaar' mill. Photo HDC Media

Load Date: January 14, 2014, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")