Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New dike heightening is getting closer
Friesch Dagblad
October 26, 2021 Tuesday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 534 words
Byline: Jan Ybema
Body


KNMI warns of higher sea level rise than previously thought, up to 2 meters in 2100
Leeuwarden It could be that the Frisian sea defenses will have to be strengthened again sooner than previously expected. This is what dike warden Suzette Kroon of Wetterskip Fryslân says in response to the KNMI's adjusted forecasts about sea level rise.
If greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced quickly, sea level rise could rise to 1.2 meters by 2100, the KNMI says. If the melting of the ice cap at the South Pole accelerates, the rise could even reach two meters by the end of this century. In 2014, the KNMI estimated an increase of no more than one meter.
When reinforcing the Waddendijk between Koehool and Lauwersmeer, a maximum rise of one meter was assumed, says dike director Kroon. “That is the new Delta standard. These reinforcements are being tackled in such a way that they should be sufficient for a period of fifty years. But if sea level rise is faster, the next reinforcement will have to take place earlier," says Kroon.
If the sea level rises faster, the land behind the dikes will be lower compared to the sea and the upwelling of salt water will therefore accelerate. Drinking water supply and agriculture are therefore more likely to suffer from salinization.
Water system
Kroon sees the biggest job as being on the entire Frisian water system of ditches, canals and lakes. "The KNMI expects longer drought periods in the summer on the one hand and heavier peak showers on the other," says Kroon. "It is an enormous task to properly prepare Fryslân for this. This KNMI report is a wake-up call for our general board and for provinces and municipalities to speed up this."
Space is needed where excess water can be collected during wet times to prevent flooding elsewhere. Such water storage areas can also serve as a buffer in times of drought, so that irrigation or water from the IJsselmeer does not have to be brought in as quickly. "All in all, these adjustments to the water system will cost an enormous amount of money," says Kroon. The water boards partly pay for this themselves, but the government also bears a large part of the costs.
Flooding such as last summer in Woudsend and Surhuisterveen cannot be completely prevented, according to the dike manager. "But now that municipalities and provinces are drawing up new visions on the use of space due to the Environmental Act, we must focus on water: water will increasingly determine what is and is not possible somewhere."
"When planning spatial plans, think immediately about water storage and do not build residential areas in the lowest parts. This way you can avoid organizing trouble for the future now."
There are also many concerned reactions to the KNMI report nationally. According to outgoing State Secretary Steven Weyenberg (D66) of Infrastructure and Water Management, preventing and adapting to global warming is "one of the biggest issues that should be on the table during the formation".
Delta Commissioner Peter Glas says that the Netherlands must speed up the Delta Program. This includes measures against flooding, drought and freshwater shortages.
Pages 4 and 17

Load Date: October 26, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")