Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New councilor Leiderdorp will continue to live in Rijnsburg. “But I'm always there”
Leidsch Dagblad
December 19, 2018 Wednesday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 003
Length: 378 words
Byline: Aad Rietveld
Body


  Leiderdorp He was already an alderman in Rijnsburg and Katwijk and in Voorschoten and now he is in Leiderdorp. The 'traveling councilor' will be introduced in more and more municipalities, thinks CDA member Daan Binnendijk. “Not everyone wants that job.”
The nomination of Daan Binnendijk as successor to his resigned party colleague Jeff Gardeniers received the unanimous support of the Leiderdorp municipal council on Monday. He fully intends to serve the remaining three-year term. "Because the CDA cannot of course put forward a new councilor every year." The Christian Democrats found their new councilor on the instructions of the faction in the provincial council of South Holland, which knew that Binnendijk was available. He will be exempted from the obligation in the Municipalities Act that an alderman must live in the municipality he or she governs. It is no longer unusual that councilors are brought in from outside the municipality. “It happens more and more often that parties cannot find a candidate,” says the Rijnsburger. “Not everyone can do it, not everyone feels like it.” Binnendijk is looking forward to it. He had also been an alderman in Voorschoten for two years. “I felt completely at home there after a year. I have been to Leiderdorp several times and I am very much looking forward to getting to know it. I will be cycling through the village a lot in the near future. And getting lost is part of it. It doesn't matter that my bed is in Rijnsburg. I'm just always there." Binnendijk has no opinion about the reason for his appointment, the forced resignation of Jeff Gardeniers due to the limited publication of an e-mail from a project developer. "I was not to blame and not the reason for his resignation. I spoke to him extensively on Friday and he was cheerful and cheerful. There was no bitter man sitting opposite me." The new CDA councilor will take over Gardeniers' portfolio, including finance and art and culture. He will also be given some additional tasks: subsidy policy, the Environmental Act, municipal services and tenders. Unlike his predecessor - who had one day a week off - he works full time.
 “I'm going to cycle through the village and get lost”

Load Date: December 18, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")