Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New tenant platform Katwijk
Leidsch Dagblad
March 2, 2016 Wednesday


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page LBO007
Length: 625 words
Body


 Arie van Rooijen and Leo Sosef: 'We are constantly hitting a wall'
Katwijk After more than a year of preparation, neighbors Arie van Rooijen and Leo Sosef are starting a tenant platform for Katwijk residents. The initiators are dissatisfied with how tenants are treated in the municipality and believe that things should be improved. "Especially now that tenant participation is playing an increasingly important role due to new legislation such as the Environmental Act and Housing Act," says Van Rooijen.
The Katwijk Tenants Platform Foundation, as the initiative is called, will not be 'just another complaints reporting point', Van Rooijen emphasizes. "We are there for help, support and give tenants a push in the right direction if they feel that their interests are not being properly represented." As tenants in the private sector, Sosef and Van Rooijen have not felt heard for years. "We are constantly hitting a wall," is how Sosef describes it. "The reluctance of Stichting Huurdersbelangen de Duinstreek (SHD) and housing association Dunavie is the reason why we set up a platform ourselves. We believe that tenants should be taken more seriously, better informed and involved in processes.”
Free sector
They want to work for the whole of renting Katwijk, including Rijnsburg and Valkenburg, but pay special attention to the private sector. Because there is little interest in the more expensive segment, they say. "Those tenants are now falling through the cracks, but they too are entitled to protection," says Sosef.
Pleasant neighborhood
The Katwijkers live in the Rooie Buurt, a characteristic neighborhood where there has been a lot of activity in recent years. The district with 178 homes suffers from vacancy due to high rents. The pleasant neighborhood it once was is increasingly disappearing. It is not only the changes in the Rooie Buurt that are causing dissatisfaction among tenants. This also applies to the demolition plans at Hoorneslaan and the construction plans around the Fisheries School, according to the founders of the platform. "Residents have questions that are not answered or they are informed late and incompletely," says Sosef. "We think transparency is very important," his neighbor adds. "Because only when a tenant is well informed can they participate in the discussion. We will help with that." Due to their experience, the two can, for example, help ask questions to the housing association or speak on behalf of a group of tenants at relevant council meetings. "There are a few important topics on the agenda in Katwijk this year," says Sosef. "Such as the performance agreements, the separation between the social and private sectors - also known as the DEAB split - and the housing construction around the Fisheries School. We are keeping a close eye on that.”
Residential monitor
An important part of the foundation is the website that goes online today. It contains, among other things, (tenant) information, explanations of complicated policy documents and reports from the news media. In addition, Sosef and Van Rooijen maintain a 'housing monitor' on the website. "That is a response to the housing vision that was established for Katwijk last year," Van Rooijen explains. A table records the extent to which agreements and objectives from that memorandum have or have not been achieved. "This way we make it clear to citizens and they don't have to go through an entire book themselves. With this we also help the municipality to get tenant participation off the ground." The two Katwijkers get off to a quiet start. The next step is to put together a board. That's why they are looking for members. They realize that the foundation takes up a lot of time. "We are willing to do that, we take this very seriously," says Van Rooijen.
More information can be found at www.huurdersplatformkatwijk.nl.

Load Date: March 1, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")