Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Noordwijk tries to spare residents some of the budget
Leidsch Dagblad
October 16, 2023 Monday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 10
Length: 591 words
Byline: Chiara Mars
Body


Noordwijk
 While the seaside resort has done well financially in recent years, it will have to tighten its budget in the coming years, as in so many municipalities. The biggest blow will be avoided thanks to cutbacks and additional tax revenues of 2 and 1.4 million respectively. With this, the municipality thinks it can end even the hottest issue - 2026 - with a positive balance, without burdening its residents too much.
Due to the government decision to cut more than 3 billion from the municipal fund in 2026, many municipalities decided not to deliver a balanced multi-year budget. Contrary to the intentions in last year's program budget, Noordwijk does. The fact that with an outgoing cabinet there is no hope for rapid changes in the flow of money to the various municipalities, makes cutbacks inevitable, including in Noordwijk.
In addition to the cuts in the municipal fund, Noordwijk also has to deal with the adjusted distribution key of the fund. The redistribution is disadvantageous for Noordwijk, because as a coastal municipality it does not fulfill a central function in the eyes of the government. To cushion the blow, the emergency guard in the De Grent entertainment area and the cleaning of the streets are being reduced.
Furthermore, the commuter tax and tourist tax will be increased by 2.6 percent. Parking tax revenues increase by the same percentage. Thanks to better enforcement and further parking digitalization, parking rates remain the same. This means that the bill will be borne as little as possible by the residents. The measures - together worth 3.5 million - will cover the deficits in 2026 and 2027.
Housing costs
But the people of Noordwijk cannot escape it either. Local taxes will increase by 5.5 percent in 2024 (assuming an average woz value of just under 4.5 tons). In subsequent years the percentages fluctuate between 3 percent and 11 percent. Home owners can count on a small financial windfall. The municipality will also give back an amount over the next two years to alleviate the financial consequences of all crises (corona crisis, energy crisis, interest rate rise, inflation, etc.). In 2024, this amounts to a total of 1.1 million euros, 0.0103 percent of the woz value.
During the presentation of the program budget, councilor Roberto ter Hark (finance) emphasized that in addition to the declining financial flows, there are also 'heavy tasks' on Noordwijk's plate that also come with price tags. This includes the introduction of the Environmental Act, energy transition, making municipal buildings more sustainable and the housing of Ukrainian refugees. With the significantly delayed council decision on the Schelft, the first preparations for the construction of the new swimming pool must also continue in 2024. In addition, other investments are planned, such as the construction of the new council chamber and a replacement of the sewer system.
Youth assistance
The government does not only bring bad news: municipalities may charge an annual amount of 900,000 to reduce the costs of youth care. Noordwijk decides to be cautious about this and includes half of the amount in the budget 'due to the current outgoing status of the cabinet and past experiences'. "We should not consider ourselves richer than we are," said Ter Hark. In 2022, fifteen percent of all young people under the age of 18 received this help in Noordwijk.
The council will make a decision on the budget on November 7.
Local taxes increase by
 3 to 11 percent
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 15, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")