Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Noordwijk is waiting for Palace's Gat plan
Leidsch Dagblad
January 19, 2022 Wednesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 5
Length: 454 words
Byline: Peter van der Hulst
Body


Noordwijk
If the Adriaan van Erk Group wants to join the revision of the zoning plan for that area in Noordwijk with its plans for the Gat van Palace and adjacent Esplanade, the construction company will have to make some haste.
With the introduction of the Environmental Act, it is necessary to get the zoning plan through the municipal council before July 1. Van Erk has not yet submitted a request in principle to the municipality for construction of the Gat van Palace and Esplanade.
After taking over a number of prominent plots, Van Erk has become an important discussion partner for Noordwijk. In addition to the Gat van Palace and Esplanade, the construction company also took over the buildings on the Vuurtorenplein, plots in the Zeereep, a former riding school and printing company from the financially distressed Bever Holding. Although the municipality had negotiated the right of first refusal, the municipal council agreed a few months ago to the delivery of the land to Van Erk. Councilor Roberto ter Hark could not say whether that transfer had already taken place. "That is something between Van Erk and Bever."
Repair
The intention is that the Gat van Palace and Esplanade will be built on first, and only later will the Vuurtorenplein and Zeereep come into view. The municipality is currently working on a repair of the Seaworthy zoning plan. It also included that a square building block of 29 meters high may be built on the Gat van Palace. The municipality wants to fix that error before July. If Van Erk's request in principle comes quickly, this can still be taken into account when making the decision. Ter Hark: "It would be nice if those two tracks come together at some point."
Tower
But time is running out. Moreover, during an initial presentation by Van Erk, the municipality indicated that it did not like a high tower on the south side of Koningin Wilhelmina Boulevard. This is contrary to the principles of the municipality. He wants the new building on Parallel Boulevard to be a maximum of 16 meters high at this location. On the sea side, the ridge may extend 23 meters above ground level, with a maximum of 26 meters. The plot boundary must run parallel to both boulevards and the northern entrance to Hoofdstraat. The Olieburg must remain accessible to traffic.
Van Erk has been informed by the municipality about the time pressure when establishing the new zoning plan. It is up to the builder to get involved now. Due to the limited time, there is not much room to change the principles. "It could be possible if Van Erk stays close to the principles," said councilor Theo Alkemade.
Municipality wants to include plan in new zoning plan
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 18, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")