Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Implementing the Environmental Act now would lead to excessive risks
Leidsch Dagblad
October 15, 2022 Saturday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 6
Length: 346 words
Byline: From our reporter
Body


The Hague
 Minister Hugo de Jonge (Spatial Planning) is postponing the introduction of the Environmental Act until July next year. He has long been pushing for the law to be introduced on January 1, 2023, but still thinks it is irresponsible to stick to that date, he told the House of Representatives.
The direct reason for his decision is the highly critical report of the ICT Assessment Advisory Board, which was drawn up at the request of the Senate. The so-called Digital System Environment Act (DSO) - crucial for the implementation of the law - still has 'significant limitations' that will lead to risks if the law is introduced on January 1, the Advisory Board said in its advice published on Monday. Although it does not specify a date of entry into force, it can be read between the lines that the council considers introduction as of January 1 to be irresponsible.
De Jonge wants to give the municipalities and provinces that have to work with the DSO more time to practice with the new law and make other preparations. However, he wants to ensure that the knowledge and experience they have already gained is lost. That is why he does not want to delay the law for too long.
The housing minister has long maintained that he wants the law to come into effect early next year, because he also sees major disadvantages if the date is pushed back further. He fears that postponement will only lead to more postponement and that municipalities and provinces that are sufficiently prepared will be at a disadvantage. This also leads to additional costs.
The Environmental Act bundles 26 existing laws and more than a hundred rules and regulations in the field of spatial planning. This should make it easier for citizens and companies to apply for a permit and for municipalities to be able to grant those permits more quickly.
The law was passed in the House of Representatives in 2015 and by the Senate in 2016. Its introduction has already been postponed four times and will therefore be postponed a fifth time.
Hugo de Jonge wants the law to come into effect in July 2023
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 14, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")