Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Don't slack off now, Mark!
de Volkskrant
September 15, 2015 Tuesday


Copyright 2015 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First
Length: 2454 words
Byline: The Hague EDITORIAL / ILLUSTRATION TZENKO
Body


Today, in their best suits and most beautiful dresses, they are the king's guests of honor in the Ridderzaal: the ministers of Rutte II. But how are they doing? Do they do what they promised? Research agency I&O Research gauged your opinion. The professional jury of De Volkskrant gives its own opinion. A progress report.
Mark Rutte
General Affairs
Your rating: 5.5
The professional jury: 6.5

Mark Rutte is his category. That feeling was widely shared in The Hague for almost a year. Such knowledge of the dossier, such debate technique, such a flawless sense of when a subject needs to be made small or endlessly large. And then find time to shake hands, put arms around shoulders, receive Gordon. Top Prime Minister, honestly.

Recently it has become as if the Prime Minister has descended into the ranks of ordinary parliamentarians. Why so reluctantly admit that it was wrong to say that not a cent more would go to Greece? Why doesn't Rutte visit an asylum seeker center, like Merkel? What was Fat Me if not a blank?

Mark Rutte is a pragmatic leader, cheerfully able to push things to the limit. But does he also provide input when moral leadership is required? The question of what lies behind his polished presentation will be asked emphatically in the final days of his second cabinet. By the voter, in the government, but also within his own party.

Louis Asscher
Social Affairs
Your rating: 6.1
The professional jury: 7.5

All his life, Lodewijk Asscher has been a man of confrontation: the pillory, followed by a conversation. This concerns rights and obligations under the rule of law, integration and integration. That often leads to a solution. Asscher is also a man of outlines. The long series of reforms has been passed by parliament: dismissal law, unemployment benefit, social assistance, Wajong, the brakes on flexible work, the reduction of pension savings. Now comes the elaboration and then it's all about details. The style of the leader may be even more important. Because now it is no longer about the drawing board but about practice. Take the reduction in unemployment benefits for seasonal workers. It looks correct on the drawing board, but in practice the newspapers are full of injustice. Another: will the repairs to the 'third year of unemployment benefit' be successful or will there be a hard clash with the trade union movement?

Asscher is in the spotlight now that he is increasingly being mentioned as the man who must pull the PvdA out of the doldrums. The pressure is rising.

Edith Schippers
Public health
Your rating: 5.5
The professional jury: 8

The bewilderment dripped from her face when her 'healthcare bill' died in the Senate. This was framed by opponents as the abolition of the free choice of doctors. “A frame,” she says. But she quickly recovered and in no time she came up with an alternative with her own frame: quality. Because who can be against that?

Opponents see her as a hardened ideological market thinker, while supporters praise her as a cheerful pragmatist who, after ten years, finally wants to make health insurance work as intended. There is no doubt that she is completely clear in her aim: to curb the increase in healthcare expenditure. And we succeeded, for the second year in a row. A major achievement. It is unfortunate that this is not perceived this way because insurance premiums and deductibles continue to rise. Although that is less severe than in the forecasts.

The greatest risks lie with her State Secretary Martin van Rijn. The transfer of care tasks to municipalities has been completed. There were no major riots and incidents, apart from the valley of tears surrounding the personal budgets. But it has now become so explosive that it will continue to haunt him for a while.

Jet Bussemaker
Education
Your rating: 5.5
The professional jury: 6

She was reprimanded by party chairman Spekman because she did not see easily enough from which direction the wind was blowing in the conflict with the occupiers of the Maagdenhuis. Too much efficiency thinking, too much VVD, Spekman thought. What nonsense, she will say: studying has to pay off. It is true that her track record is better than the presentation. With the support of a remarkable political monster alliance, she got the loan system through Parliament, the proceeds going to the universities. Well done, but what remains is that students grumble because they no longer graduate 'debt-free'. Bussemaker is absolutely right that no one should have to succumb to student debt. Yet her message does not stick. She gives the impression of a technician rather than a politician. She received a passing grade with a 6 from the professional jury. But that makes her unsuitable for the real top, at least according to the standards she herself imposes on students.

Jeanine Hennis
defence
Your rating: 5.7
The professional jury: 6

While she was surprised that she 'stayed afloat' during the first year, Hennis now bites back when someone asks if she can still handle it all. 'If I was overloaded, I wouldn't be here. Then I would lie in my bed and cry.' She has mastered debates about headache files - there are quite a few -. The opposition no longer attacks continuously. She is now the most popular VVD minister among the public. The problem is her decisiveness. The armed forces must be bigger, faster and stronger. But within the cabinet she cannot get her hands on it for really big steps.

Meanwhile it squeaks and creaks everywhere. Supplies are so small that soldiers sometimes have to shout 'bang bang' during exercises to save bullets. Her agenda is clear, but the patience of soldiers and allies is slowly running out.

Bert Koenders
Foreign Affairs
Your rating: 5.8
The professional jury: 6.5

Taking office as a minister halfway through a cabinet term is like changing players at a football match. It can throw the team off balance. That did not happen to Koenders.

So he was prepared. There is no world problem that Koenders knows about. His diplomats report with relief that he has even more of Timmerman's love for reading. The information they provide no longer has to be short and concise. Koenders just reads until he knows everything.

His problem is that he has to make do with a coalition that can hardly agree on anything 'across the border'. Should we participate in air strikes in Syria? Are we going to accept Guantanamo Bay prisoners? Koenders' answers invariably take months. He prefers to consult behind the scenes. That is a useful quality for a diplomat, but the people expect a clear vision from a minister.

Lilianne Ploumen
Foreign trade
Your rating: 5.3
The professional jury: 7

The happiest in the cabinet is usually Lilianne Ploumen. Quite special, because the refugee camps through which she walks in wellies do not evoke happy thoughts at all. But she has an optimistic character. For example, she does not provide aid money to solve dire situations, but to 'improve' people's living conditions so that they have more 'hope'.

Earlier this year, she was the only one in the cabinet with clear ideas to solve the flow of refugees. 'We are going to create extra work for Africans, otherwise they will all get into one of those boats.' The rest of the cabinet is now also involved in the refugee crisis.

The hot topic is the yet to be concluded trade agreement between the EU and the US. Opponents fear the chlorinated chickens and hormone meat on the European market. Ploumen firmly counters the criticism: 'That chlorine chicken just won't happen.' But she doesn't really know that for sure. Negotiations are taking place at such a high level that a Dutch minister has only limited influence on them. Honesty about this is difficult for her.

Ard van der Steur
Safety
Your rating: 5.3
The professional jury: 6

The debating skills of his predecessor Ivo Opstelten too often got bogged down in an incomprehensible tangle of words. The eloquence of debate champion Van der Steur is therefore a relief. The new minister, who has been in office for six months this week, formulates clearly, smoothly and with humor. He would do well to dose the jokes, not every subject is suitable for jokes.

The '18th-century British dandy' (says one MP) is as refined in his appearance as in his language. He rightly refuses to participate in Rutte's jeans parade on the Wassenaar beach. Then with a flowing tie. His ability to maintain composure also deserves praise. He was taken hostage by angry police officers: he remained a gentleman, with no trace of irritation.

But the real test is yet to come. The headaches are numerous: the difficult collective labor agreement negotiations, the creaking National Police, the Cees H. (Opsteltens banana peel) case, the legal side of the MH17 investigation, the unruly culture within the department. Castle lord Van der Steur is waiting for feats of arms.

Henk Kamp
Economics
Your rating: 5.4
The professional jury: 5.5

Once again, Groningen gas dominated Henk Kamp's parliamentary year. But this time the Minister of Energy came through with considerably less glory. Last year he commanded respect by explaining his policy on the spot to desperate and unreasoning Groningen residents. This year he blundered: you should consider those earthquakes caused by gas extraction as a fact of life.

Kamp admitted his mistake, but was unable to catch up. Painful gas debates followed in Parliament. Groningers in the public gallery cried and sang their national anthem. But Kamp held on to an unusually large amount of gas that he wanted to extract from the ground. His debate technique: literally reading out his own, very dry letters to Parliament sent shortly before each debate.

Ultimately, Kamp perished. Completely changed. Unbelievable. 'Gas extraction from Groningen will be reduced as much as possible, because it concerns the safety of the people of Groningen.' Their gas will only be extracted if the Netherlands can no longer obtain natural gas anywhere else.

Melanie Schultz
Infrastructure
Your rating: 5.5
The professional jury: 6.5

They exist: ministers who only want to be a good professional. No ideological sharpening or political elbowing for Schultz. She will not return to the House of Representatives any time soon. She will sooner become Minister of Concrete Affairs again. Or she'll run a big, tangible company that produces things.

Of all ministers after Prime Minister Rutte, Schultz is the least in the House of Representatives. She gives few interviews, is rarely a talk show guest and in the newspaper she is the queen of the photo caption. That includes being in a self-driving truck, being at the opening of the second Suez Canal, or issuing the first of 2.8 million new license plates.

Because she had made calculation errors, the judge overturned Schultz's decision to drive at Rotterdam 100. That defeat attracted attention. Not her victory: Schultz guided a mega law through an almost unanimous House of Representatives. This Environmental Act bundles 26 existing laws and hundreds of rules. Really something for a minister, but no one saw it.

Jeroen Dijsselbloem
Finances
Your rating: 6.6
The professional jury: 6

Anyone who sees 'our' Minister of Finance saving Greece, the euro and the entire Avondland almost forgets that that is just a side job. His main job is in The Hague. Until March, everyone's jaws dropped in admiration for the spectacularly effective and unflappable Dijsselbloem, who is also the most popular minister.

But during the campaign for the provincial elections he turned out to be an ordinary politician, complete with occasional arguments and nonsensical accusations of electoral competitors. CDA and D66 really did not want to cut 13 billion euros, as Dijsselbloem continued to insist. He then feigned spontaneous surprise twice about things he had known for a long time: that the Netherlands had to pay 642 million euros in additional taxes to Brussels and that the top management of ABN Amro had accepted a pay increase of 100,000 euros per man.

Dijsselbloem meandered towards a way out that the House was satisfied with. But when he subsequently tidied up his costume, the hors catégorie label appeared to have disappeared, just like the prime minister.

Stef Blok
Living
Your rating: 5.1
The professional jury: 8

He is very unknown. And not popular either. Moreover, he will never become a charismatic speaker with great views. He says so himself. 'My whole political career has been like this: I see a problem and I come up with a solution. I think that's cool!'

But look how he, as an undisguised VVD technocrat, has simply checked off his to-do list. He drove laws and cuts through the House at breakneck speed that determine the face of the Netherlands. Higher rents, limiting the mortgage interest deduction, reducing the size of the central government. This year the final hurdle was taken: after more than a decade of wrangling, a new Housing Act has been introduced. Blok also proves to be a clever politician. If necessary, he humbly listens to the opposition, ultimately deviating as little as possible from the VVD line. He haughtily sends harmless opponents into the woods during debates. Tenants, housing associations and scientists believe that Blok is killing Dutch public housing. His own party states that house prices are rising again 'thanks to Stef'.

Ronald Plasterk
Home Affairs
Your rating: 5.1
The professional jury: 5

Ronald Plasterk still manages to arouse great resentment. Since this summer, he has been on a collision course with the largest trade union in the country, the FNV, which was passed over in the collective labor agreement for government civil servants. "Incomprehensible, unheard of and rude," said FNV leader and party member Ton Heerts. Regardless of the question of who is right in the wage battle, in these times of trouble, no one in the PvdA is looking forward to a clash with kindred spirits.

Furthermore, Plasterk remained in the shelter. Unlike in previous years, no major plans were canceled, but there were no more. Plasterk can compete with his decisive action in the Caribbean part of the kingdom. He also limits top salaries in the public sector, although he sometimes allows exceptions.

Not nothing, but it remains meager. The bitter reality: Plasterk hardly has any options left to add luster to this ministership. And a man of his stature doesn't get a mercy six.
Prescription
For this report, research agency I&O Research asked 1,999 Dutch people aged 18 and older for their opinion about the ministers. That is the public jury.

The professional jury consists of the entire political editorial staff of the Volkskrant, who did not assess the ministers on their opinions or political principles, but on practical criteria: do ministers do what they promise, do they get something done, do they have a clear agenda, do they operate cleverly? and do they convey their ambitions convincingly?

View the original page: page 14, page 15

Load Date: September 14, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")