Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Oegstgeest has green plans for the coming decade
Leidsch Dagblad
June 4, 2022 Saturday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 17
Length: 421 words
Byline: Anne de Vries
Body


Oegstgeest
 'Climate-conscious' is how the municipality of Oegstgeest wants to work in the next ten years. For example, they look at the collection and handling of rainwater and surface water, for cooling and in times of drought. The municipality also wants to pay more attention to green facades and roofs and shelter from large trees.
In new construction or renovation projects and in the redesign of neighborhoods and streets, drought and heat stress - local high temperatures due to petrification - can be prevented by using or preserving greenery and water.
In the autumn of 2021, residents and organizations were able to contribute ideas. These ideas were ultimately incorporated into the new policy. The old policy from 2011 was due for an update. Oegstgeest has grown in residents and homes, and a lot has changed in the field of climate and biodiversity in the past decade. Moreover, it became clear during the municipal elections that ideas about how the municipality should deal with greenery in the village differed greatly per party.
The biggest driver for the new policy is the upcoming Environmental Act, for which municipalities must draw up their own environmental vision. In it, the municipality writes what they consider important and what they want to achieve for the physical living environment of the residents. They have already done the preliminary work with this policy.
Redeemed
Some green areas have been designated by the municipality as 'main structure', important for the entire village. In principle, no construction takes place here. Others are 'side structures', particularly important for a specific district or neighborhood. There, green can be exchanged for stone to a 'limited' extent. The parties CDA, HvO, BVNL and the Spaargaren faction wanted to remove this distinction from the plan during Thursday evening's council meeting, but were rejected by the rest of the council.
Councilor Mathijs Huizing reminded the council members that this can only happen in very exceptional cases and that the greenery or water that has to make way for construction must therefore be compensated. In addition, all construction plans are submitted to the council, which then makes its own decision.
The municipality also immediately identifies a number of projects that they want to work on, such as greening the streets in Nieuw Rhijngeest, working on water storage in Haaswijk-Poelgeest and making the banks and verges in the village biodiverse.
Residents can also put forward initiatives to green their own neighborhood.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 3, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")