Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Oegstgeest sets frameworks for building in the village
Leidsch Dagblad
March 28, 2023 Tuesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 6
Length: 400 words
Byline: Anne de Vries
Body


Oegstgeest
 Do you want to build something in Oegstgeest, such as a petting zoo or a new residential apartment? The village's new environmental vision maps out where this is and is not possible.
Oegstgeest's 'environmental vision' was adopted last week with a drum roll. Smiling broadly, councilor Elfred Bus (D66) shook the hands of the officials behind him. It was a celebration of the long process that led to this moment, including a residents' evening at the end of September last year.
"We are not very good at being happy with each other in this house," said councilor Tobias van der Hoeven (CDA) just before the vote. But, councilor Arne-Jan Vos (D66) also said: "This piece is an example of how things are going well together. The process has been good, the piece is good.”
environmental code
In the environmental vision, the municipality, with the help of a consultancy firm, has brought together all current policy and ambitions for the future in the field of spatial development such as housing, greenery and climate adaptation. The document thus prepares for the introduction of the national environmental law in January 2024.
This makes it clear what the municipality wants to protect, such as the Endegeest and Oud-Poelgeest estates. But goals have also been set for future tasks, such as the energy transition, climate adaptation and housing construction.
It is now black and white that Oegstgeest will not replace green with stone. After meeting the current regional housing needs, the village has also reached its limits in terms of housing construction. Places where construction can take place are west of the A44, the Almondehoeve and the La France location.
The high-voltage route is also still on the table. The CDA would prefer to see only greenery there, but according to the rest of the council and councilor Bus, this is not purely financially feasible. Undergrounding the high-voltage cables will cost three million euros, which can be recouped through housing construction.
A44
Another proposal from the CDA, to look in the future at whether to put the part of the A44 that runs through Oegstgeest underground, for example, was supported by the other council members on Thursday evening.
Furthermore, the council members mainly had textual adjustments for the document. Councilor Bus called the piece a 'milestone' on Thursday evening, but also only the beginning of developments in the village.
'An example of how things are going well together'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 27, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")