Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental vision gives council more power; opinion
Leidsch Dagblad
May 1, 2021 Saturday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 17
Length: 488 words
Body


opinion
Outside the construction world, few people will be aware of the upcoming Environmental Act, let alone what it will mean in practice.
The Environment Act offers municipalities the opportunity to organize the living environment more coherently. The law offers more room for local customization and enables faster decision-making. The law is comprehensive: all information relevant to municipalities is bundled here. An important consequence is the obligation for municipalities to draw up a so-called Environmental Vision, a document to record the municipal vision, policy and rules.
The municipality of Leiden has also done that. The result can be downloaded from the municipal website: 46 pages Draft Environmental Vision Leiden 2040 and 334 pages report Environmental Impact Report Leiden Environmental Vision 2040. A daunting amount of information to which Leiden citizens can respond no later than May 14. To simplify this, a 7-page summary is available, in which councilor Fleur Spijker invites citizens to respond. How these citizens can acquire these documents and all their implications in such a short period is not explained.
How important is that Environmental Vision? Very important, because it will form the framework within which the municipality decides on environmental (formerly zoning) plans, environmental (formerly building) permits and other permits for festivities, etc. In addition, the municipality can now provide so-called customization, i.e. decide on matters that used to be arranged centrally from The Hague. Our current board can therefore accommodate all its hobbies in such an Environmental Vision, which can only be changed by subsequent boards (with their own hobbies) with great difficulty. In essence, the current board can determine the development of Leiden for years to come.
Should we just let that happen? At a glance, the presented, richly illustrated Environmental Vision looks sunny enough: Disneyland will soon pale in comparison to the sight of Leiden in 2040. It is all green, sustainability, health and spacious living that is what counts in the City of Discoveries and its beating heart. in the region. Who could be against that?
Well, for example, those who do not believe in all the predicted trends and developments that form the basis for all good intentions. Or who want to make comments on the formulated ambitions. Or anyone who wonders how it is possible that all these wonderful plans can be realized on the same surface area where we already lack greenery, parking space, play areas and road capacity. Many high-rise buildings and no more parking permits seem to be the road to the bright future. Anyone who has reservations about this must make their voice heard in a timely manner. Or cast it on the right party.
Michel Jehee, Leiden
The council can determine the development of Leiden for years to come
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 30, 2021, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")