Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=environmental code
 The Senate wants a postponement of the Environmental Act
NRC
November 1, 2023 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 10
Length: 451 words
Byline: Rik Rutten
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
Spatial planning
At the last minute, the Senate wants the minister to postpone the Environmental Act one more time. De Jonge is not looking forward to that.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Outgoing Minister of Housing and Home Affairs Hugo de Jonge (CDA) is maneuvering diametrically opposed to the Senate. A majority of the Senate wants him to postpone the introduction of the troubled Environmental Act, but De Jonge wants nothing to do with that.
On Tuesday, the GroenLinks-PvdA senate faction called on the minister in a motion to wait with the law until after January 1, 2024, the intended implementation date. That motion was co-signed by BBB, SP, PvdD, JA21, 50Plus and OPNL, the party of cooperating provincial factions. Together these parties form a large majority in the Senate.
In the motion, the parties say that several parts of the law "still have too great implementation problems to responsibly implement as of January 1, 2024". They fear that "major risks may arise for the legal protection and legal certainty of citizens and companies in the Netherlands" if the law is introduced now.
Lost permits
It is yet another clash between the Senate and the Cabinet over the Environmental Act. This law, the first proposal of which was written in 2013, is intended to simplify rules on spatial planning. But with every step closer to implementation, the tension increases. Last week, software builders expressed fears in NRC of a new IT drama. Meanwhile, officials fear lost building permits and project developers who could push through their plans.
A year ago, the government's IT watchdog warned of serious problems. Internal concerns were withheld by the top officials of the Ministry of the Interior and critical officials were put under pressure to paint a positive picture.
De Jonge has always maintained that the problems can be solved. With that promise, he persuaded the Senate in June to accept January 1, 2024 as the implementation date. But nothing came of his promises, a majority of the Senate now believes.
"We must learn from what went wrong in the past, and we must dare to stop when we still can," said Saskia Kluit, the senator for GroenLinks-PvdA who submitted the motion. "And that is now. "
De Jonge, who previously called the Environmental Act "a blessing for humanity", does not think so. He said in a response in the Senate that the motion comes too late and is "unworkable". And so he does not change his implementation plans.
The Senate is diametrically opposed to Hugo de Jonge on the postponement of the Environmental Act
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 31, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")