Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Residents' delegation wants quick consultation on Schiphol policy; aviation A citizen's vision to put the interests of local residents on the map
Leidsch Dagblad
November 5, 2021 Friday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 7
Length: 627 words
Byline: Annet van Aarsen
Body


aviation A citizen's vision to put the interests of local residents on the map
The residents' delegation in the Schiphol Environmental Council (ORS) finds it worrying: "The Schiphol policy is literally up in the air." The club wrote its own citizen vision about the future of the national airport and Dutch aviation policy.
Amsterdam
 In fact, after air traffic was grounded for a while due to the corona pandemic, everything when it comes to aviation is currently at a standstill, except for the growth in the number of flight movements at Schiphol. Observation by the residents' delegation in the Schiphol Environmental Council, which raised its hand in vain as a discussion partner in the formation process. “We have approached the Chamber and the formateurs many times. We would like to talk about how Schiphol residents view the future of Schiphol. But little has been done with it so far," says chairman Matt Poelmans of the residents' delegation.
Hub
For this reason, among other things, the club has listed in its own document - a citizens' vision - how it views Dutch aviation policy and the future of Schiphol, substantiated by research and political promises from the (recent) past. It contains six recommendations. The most important one: stop Schiphol's so-called 'hub & spokes model', whereby the airport processes many transfer passengers who do not have the Netherlands as their departure point or final destination. "Aim the size of Schiphol to meet the needs of Dutch business travelers, tourists and people traveling to the Netherlands."
Another piece of advice: "Real nuisance reduction is only possible by reducing the number of flights." The residents' delegation has been proclaiming for a long time that the Dutch market could cope with around 330,000 flight movements per year from Schiphol. A lot less than the situation in 2019: 500 thousand flights per year and growing if policy remains unchanged. Local residents must be better protected when it comes to (noise) nuisance, according to the residents' delegation. "The introduction of the Environmental Act in 2022 is the logical moment to establish the WHO guidelines as a standard. Environmental quality must be legally laid down locally and measured, so that local residents of Schiphol receive individual legal protection in terms of health and living enjoyment, including outdoors."
Little speed
This is the moment when aviation policy must come under the magnifying glass, says residents' leader Matt Poelmans. But there is little momentum in the process. The aviation memorandum has been declared controversial due to the outgoing status of the cabinet, and the cabinet formation continues to drag on. And remarkably enough, there is no progress in the intended end of the Schiphol Environmental Council, of which the residents' delegation is a part.
Poelmans once again points out that little has happened in that area, after a committee led by Pieter van Geel concluded in 2020 that the ORS was on the rocks. Van Geel then recommended a separation of the various stakeholder groups - governments, aviation and local residents - and the establishment of a Schiphol Social Council. In addition to residents, scientists and social organizations should also be given a place in this. That Social Council still does not exist, Van Geel is still interim chairman of the ORS and the cabinet has still not made a decision on his advice.
Finally, speed up the establishment of the Social Council, the residents' delegation asks. "Such an advisory body (...) guards against infringements by aviation on privacy, sleep, health, safety, environment and climate."
Everything is at a standstill, policy is literally hanging in the air
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 4, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")