Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Introduce environmental law despite difficulties
Friesch Dagblad
February 26, 2021 Friday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group BVAll Rights Reserved


Length: 458 words
Body


Frisian municipalities do not want any further postponement of the law
Leeuwarden Several Frisian municipalities are having difficulty with the high costs associated with the introduction of the Environmental Act, according to a tour by the Friesch Dagblad. Heerenveen points to the 'very tight financial circumstances' in many municipalities, which makes it difficult to keep sufficient money available for the implementation of the law.
Municipalities have received government funding to implement the law, but this has previously proven to be insufficient. "The implementation costs are very high," says the municipality of Noordoostpolder, which unanimously passed a motion at the Association of Dutch Municipalities to lobby the government for extra money. "We want to be able to introduce the law in a budget-neutral manner," says Noordoostpolder. Súdwest-Fryslân also states that 'generous financial compensation from the government is necessary'.
Despite the difficulties, Frisian municipalities want to stick to January 1, 2022 as the implementation date of the law. This is striking, because a survey by Internal Affairs earlier this month showed that 48 percent of responding councilors wanted to postpone or cancel the introduction of the law.
Time, energy and money
The law was previously postponed from 2017 to 2019 and then to 2021 and then to 2022. Many Frisian municipalities say they do not want another postponement, because so much time, energy and money has already been invested in implementing the law now. . By postponing, the sense of urgency to take action would be lost, municipalities write, and costs would increase even further.
In the meantime, not all municipalities still have pilot projects running to gain experience with the new law. Where experiments are already taking place with environmental plans, residents do not appear to be keen to get involved everywhere. It sometimes remains a far-fetched show, writes Leeuwarden. But 'on balance, the law is an improvement for residents', says Súdwest-Fryslân, because there would be more room to respond to local wishes from the bottom up.
According to the municipalities, whether everything will be successful in introducing the law in time depends mainly on the government and a well-functioning digital system. Furthermore, they try not to raise too high expectations. "Regardless of the implementation date, we do not expect everything to run completely smoothly at once," Heerenveen said. If possible, various municipalities are writing to be able to meet the legal obligations and the minimum requirements surrounding the Environmental Act on January 1.
Whether that date must indeed be met still depends on a decision in the Senate.
Regardless of the date of implementation, we do not expect everything to run completely smoothly at once

Load Date: April 1, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")