Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental law will have a single point of contact
de Volkskrant
July 13, 2013 Saturday


Copyright 2013 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Domestic; Page 11
Length: 324 words
Byline: FROM OUR REPORTER RON MeerHOF
Body


Cabinet wants to simplify permit applications
Applying for permits related to spatial planning is becoming easier. From now on, citizens and companies will have to deal with one application, one counter and one decision and the duration of a procedure will be reduced from 26 to 8 weeks.
All aspects of an application, from architectural to environmental, are included in one regulation: the Environmental Act.

Minister Schultz, who manages the Spatial Planning portfolio in addition to Infrastructure, speaks of 'the largest legislative operation after the Second World War'. Environmental law is currently spread over 40 sectoral laws, 117 general administrative measures and hundreds of ministerial regulations.

Many of those schemes are duplicated. When Schultz announced the clean-up operation two years ago, she cited the National Landscape Regulations as an example. This includes, for example, the Green Heart. But that was also already protected by Natura 2000 and the National Ecological Network. Conclusion: a line is drawn through those National Landscapes.

The government predicts that the procedures surrounding the construction of large infrastructure projects, such as roads and railways, will also become more efficient. Before starting, all sides must be mapped out. Once the decision has been made, you can continue with the implementation at once.

According to Prime Minister Rutte, the conversion to a single Environmental Act fits seamlessly into his pursuit of less regulatory burden and a smaller government. Rutte believes that nature can also be adequately protected with this simplification.

"You really don't need this idiocy of stacked regulations for that," he said at his weekly press conference on Friday. 'Take the environmental impact assessments that had to be made for projects: each time a trunk full of paper. Then it seems like you are doing well. But no one reads those things anymore and all that paper is bad for the environment too.'

Graphic

 
The Green Heart. The Environmental Act replaces a number of overlapping laws that protect the area.
Photo Martijn Beekman

Load Date: August 23, 2013, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")