Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental law is not yet part of church management
Friesch Dagblad
December 29, 2023 Friday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 687 words
Byline: Jan Auke Brink
Highlight: Leeuwarden The Environmental Act, which comes into effect on January 1, also has consequences for religious communities. Churches have to deal with this if they want to renovate or organize an event around the church. But for the time being, municipalities and parishes have not yet really delved into this.
Body


"Imagine you want to build a new church, or significantly expand your church, then you have to talk to the entire area surrounding the church," says real estate advisor Bert Bruinsma in Kerk Magazine, an independent facilities trade magazine for churches. Bruinsma is director of TriaCon , a consultancy firm that, among other things, assists churches in applying for permits for new and renovation projects.
The Environmental Act bundles 26 existing laws into one comprehensive law. This calls for more attention to be paid to local residents, companies and interest groups, Bruinsma explains in the magazine. "Churches are special in the sense that they have an important social function and attract many people. The environment is experiencing pressure from this. The more people you have to inform, the more time it takes. This makes the process longer."
More clear
For many churches, the introduction of the environmental law still feels far away. For example, the Classical Board for the Handling of Management Affairs (CCBB) of the Classis Fryslân is not yet working on it. The Platform Fryske Tsjerken has also not yet focused on it.
This is no different for church communities and parishes. "The churches are not specifically concerned with the Environmental Act," says Rein Boersma, chairman of the Fryslân department of the Association for Church Rental Management in the Protestant Church in the Netherlands (VKB). "The procedures will be different, but for the applicant permits, it must become clearer. After all, the application concerns an environmental permit and not a handful of permits as is sometimes the case."
Boersma emphasizes that with the introduction of the Environmental Act, the policy of municipalities will not change: "The big change takes place behind the scenes in the town hall."
Repurposing
Managers of church buildings mainly have to deal with the Environmental Act when they think about repurposing the building, according to Dick Tolsma, owner of an energy consultancy firm and until recently church steward of the Protestant Community of Franeker. "If municipalities own multiple buildings and dispose of one, they will have to deal with the Environmental Act."
In Holwert, Kingma's Bouwbedrijf from Buitenpost purchased the former Reformed church on the Elbasterwei this year. The church is being converted into a group accommodation with space for 24 guests. The work will not start until next year, after the construction holiday during the summer holidays. But director Jaco Kingma does not have to deal with the Environmental Act for this: "All permits have already been obtained, that has been arranged now." He is preparing for the introduction of the Environmental Act for work on other buildings: "We are going to course now. And municipalities may have to do that too. There is still a lot of uncertainty, but we will see how it happens."
Church vision
Boersma points out that most civil municipalities have drawn up a church vision. This is a strategic vision for the future of all church buildings within the municipality: which buildings will continue to function as a church, which church buildings will be made suitable for multiple use in the future and which buildings will be closed for worship and given a different function? "As a result, some municipalities have set up a special telephone number where owners of church buildings can ask questions and receive referrals. This is positive," says Boersma.
Last year, the North Holland Monuments & Archeology Support Center published the brochure From church vision to environmental plan. 'The Environmental Act offers opportunities to anchor the ambitions formulated in the church visions in municipal policy,' it says.
The Environmental Plan is particularly important, which must replace the current zoning plans. But it will take years before the Environmental Plan is ready - in some cases it will not be ready until 2032, according to a conversation between this newspaper and the municipality of De Fryske Marren earlier this week.
This is the third part in a series about the consequences of the Environmental Act for residents, companies, governments and organizations in Fryslân

Load Date: January 23, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")