Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental law under fire: ICT system does not work at all
de Volkskrant
February 12, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 14
Length: 429 words
Byline: MAC VAN DINTHER
Highlight: The Environmental Act, the new law on spatial planning, is under fire. Automation experts, design agencies and software suppliers are heavily critical of the Digital System for the Environment Act (DSO), the IT system that forms the foundation for the law.
Body


First
According to the parties involved, crucial parts of the DSO are still not functioning and the technology behind the system is far too complex. Some even doubt whether the DSO will ever function properly. This would jeopardize the entire Environmental Act.

The Environmental Act, which according to Prime Minister Mark Rutte is 'the largest legislative operation since the revision of the Constitution in 1848', must replace all existing regulations in the field of spatial planning. 26 laws, 60 general administrative measures and 75 ministerial regulations are combined in this one law. The law was already approved by the House of Representatives and Senate in 2015 and 2016. But due to problems with the DSO, the introduction has already been postponed four times, the last time until July 1 this year.

Last week, the Minister of Housing and Spatial Planning, Hugo de Jonge, decided to postpone again. He mentioned October 1 this year or January 1, 2023 as possible new dates. But parties involved in the project doubt whether that is feasible.
Emergency consultation
De Jonge came to his decision after urgent consultations with the suppliers of software that must connect municipalities and other agencies to the DSO. All area information must be bundled in this digital system, which has been in the works for more than seven years. This allows the submitter of a project to see what is going on somewhere at the touch of a button.

But the DSO is still in the testing phase, says Bas Janssen of IAM4, supplier of planning and control software. 'Important parts are still being changed every day. It is impossible to develop against that.'

The problems are mainly caused by the fact that the DSO has become much more complex than intended, says Hennie Genee of Cadac Group, which supplies planning software to municipalities. "In fact, the entire project should go back to the drawing board for simplification," says Genee. 'But that will cause delays, and the ministry does not want that. People are afraid that the momentum for the law will then disappear.'

Serious doubts have also arisen about the DSO in the Senate. The senators sent a laundry list of 33 pages of questions to De Jonge at the end of January.

If the minister is wise, he will cancel the entire project, says Jan Struiksma, emeritus professor of public administration, specialized in environmental law. Struiksma, who took part in an expert meeting organized by the Senate, predicts a 'drama' if the law, including the DSO, is introduced.
Saturday section The Law of All or Nothing

View the original page: page 14

Load Date: February 11, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")