Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Entrepreneurs find Voorschoten bad, slow and expensive
Leidsch Dagblad
March 4, 2020 Wednesday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2020 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 006
Length: 409 words
Byline: Marieta Kroft
Body


  Voorschoten The issuing of permits by the municipality of Voorschoten is poor, slow and expensive, according to the Ondernemersvereniging Voorschoten (OVV).
She offers the municipality a helping hand and regards the municipality of Katwijk as a great example. "The municipality shows that with sometimes very simple means the process and mutual understanding can be improved and accelerated." The OVV is sick of municipal services, as shown in the report "It must be better, faster and cheaper" by chairman Frank ten Have presented to councilor Marcel Cramwinckel on Tuesday morning. The OVV had asked approximately 25 members about their experiences with the municipality when applying for a permit. Only two of the eleven who responded were satisfied. The others were 'dissatisfied to very dissatisfied', the report says. The interest group speaks of 'distressing cases in which the permit granting processes took bizarrely long or were more than forty times as expensive as in the neighboring municipality of Leiden'. Some entrepreneurs are deterred and do not invest.
Kindergarten level
  Another question was about contacts with the official organization during the permit granting process. Here too, most were negative, as is evident from various quotes in the report such as 'kindergarten level', 'contacts very stiff and no flexibility whatsoever' and 'problems with arrogant attitude of prosperity'. The OVV has been opposing the high fees and slow processing for some time. For construction projects up to 130,000 euros, Voorschoten is the most expensive in the Netherlands. Voorschoten increased the rates by 90 percent in 2018. The entrepreneurs previously advocated research into working more efficiently so that costs can be reduced. Despite earlier promises from the councilor, the OVV was told last month that the investigation will not take place. Due to the introduction of the Environmental Act, the working method will be radically revised in any case. “Disappointing,” says Ten Have. “Especially because we already asked for it a year and a half ago. The research could have been carried out a long time ago." Councilor Cramwinckel looks at the criticism from entrepreneurs on the positive side. “Every complaint is free advice. We will use this report in the preparation for a new method for granting an environmental permit." He is not in favor of returning the better-than-expected fee income.

Load Date: March 3, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")