Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Research: PvdA and GroenLinks normally agree in the senate
Friesch Dagblad
July 13, 2022 Wednesday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 509 words
Highlight: The Hague The fact that the Labor Party and GroenLinks disagreed in the Senate this Tuesday about the CETA trade treaty is an exception.
Body


 Karimi said it was painful that she had to ask Koole critical questions
The two left-wing parties vote the same in the Senate in 99 percent of the cases when they consider bills. This is evident from research by the PDC Montesquieu Institute. The vote on CETA was the first in more than a year where the parties disagreed. GroenLinks and PvdA plan to merge their Senate factions after next year's Senate elections.
The researchers looked at all votes in the Senate of the current factions, which have been there since 2019. The Greens and Social Democrats voted differently on nine bills. In addition to CETA, this also involved the 2020 tax plan and legislative proposals regarding the Environmental Act, the inventory shows. After 2020, they only disagreed about the temporary Corona Admission Tickets Act, which GroenLinks was in favor of and the PvdA against.
PDC also looked at the voting behavior of the parties on motions. Here too, the parties usually appeared to agree, although less often than with the bills. The PvdA supported 97 percent of the GroenLinks motions, and GroenLinks supported 94 percent of the PvdA motions. Motions from the most politically related parties in the Senate, SP and Party for the Animals, were also supported in more than 90 percent of the cases.
The parties that want to work together agreed less often on motions from the government parties, although the PvdA is structurally less negative than GroenLinks. That difference is largest when it came to CDA motions, of which the Social Democrats supported 40 percent. GroenLinks only supported 27 percent. Both parties responded the most tepidly to the VVD: the PvdA agreed 27 percent of the time and GroenLinks 24 percent of the time.
To collaborate
Last month, the members of both GroenLinks and the PvdA decided that they wanted to work more closely together in the Senate. The parties want to form a joint faction after the next elections. In the House of Representatives, the parties usually act together, and during the formation they only wanted to form a cabinet together.
PvdA senator Ruud Koole explained yesterday in the debate on the treaty why his party still expresses support for the treaty. He said Ukraine is fighting for European values. Those values ​​and the international order would also be supported by the trade agreement, which is "based on rules rather than the brute force of force or the law of the strongest".
GroenLinks MP Farah Karimi questioned the connection Koole made with the war. Because of the pursuit of a joint faction in the Senate, Karimi called it "painful" that she had to ask Koole critical questions. "What surprises me is that all environmental organizations and trade unions say: don't do it. And you say no. cannot be explained."
According to Koole, the differences are not too bad. "The goals are the same, we make a different decision on the way to get there."
Link to PDF

Load Date: July 12, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")