Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Unpalatable' gap in building permit prices
Leidsch Dagblad
August 24, 2021 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 12
Length: 526 words
Byline: Pieter van Erven Dorens
Body


Amersfoort
For a building permit for a home you pay 1,700 euros in The Hague and 10,829 euros a little further in Oegstgeest, according to research by Eigen Huis into construction fees this year. "Such enormous differences cannot be explained," says a spokesperson for the interest group. Oegstgeest increased the rate by no less than 18 percent this year.
In its annual study, the Eigen Huis Association compared what municipalities charge for a small renovation requiring a permit up to 10,000 euros and what they charge for an average new-build house with a construction cost of 170,000 euros. Including land and VAT, such a house costs approximately 3.5 tons.
In 41 municipalities, construction fees increased by more than 10 percent. Costs fell in 14 municipalities. For example, Putten now asks 3,073 euros for a new-build home, compared to 4,831 euros last year. On average, construction fees increased by 3 percent.
The first prize for the strongest increase in new construction goes to Montfoort. There, construction fees increased by 53 percent to 8,469 euros.
Renkum in Gelderland was a leader in small renovations. For this you have to pay 450 euros to the municipality (+65 percent). "At the request of the municipal council, we have made the fees for building permits more cost-effective," says councilor Joa Maouche. "Previously these permits cost less, but then all taxpayers paid the rest through the property tax and the like."
At Eigen Huis they have already heard many explanations for the sky-high price differences for exactly the same document. "Some municipalities say: the civil servant works in a building, we take those costs into account."
There are just as many question marks at the WoningbouwersNL trade club. "You sometimes suspect that municipalities have run into budgetary problems," says researcher Jannes van Loon. He emphasizes that fees only concern costs incurred for the building permit. "It is separate from the costs of spatial development. "
Indigestible
Director Cindy van de Velde of Eigen Huis finds the price differences in construction fees unbearable. "We call on municipalities to use the introduction of the new Environmental Act on July 1, 2022 to harmonize rates."
“In principle, fees must cover costs. You are not allowed to earn on it," says spokesperson Esther Verhoeff of the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG). "But you can shift fees, with one becoming cheaper and the other more expensive. Political choices are made in the amount of fees. For example, as a municipality you can keep the sewerage tax, which everyone pays, as low as possible by increasing others."
According to the VNG, it also depends on the type of municipality: "A growing municipality with new-build neighborhoods has a relatively large turnover of relatively easy building applications. That makes a difference in the average costs." According to VNG, it can also happen that the municipality incurs costs for long-term projects for up to ten years before you can collect the fees. "How do you allocate those costs from different years to the year of revenue? , is also something that can make a difference."
Eigen Huis compares what it costs per municipality
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 23, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")