Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Concealing views with enormous openness; column

NRC.NEXT
February 11, 2020 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 2
Length: 471 words
Byline: Tom-Jan Meeus
Body


What you never actually see anymore, except sometimes in Andere Tijd, are politicians who talk to the media but hide their position. Speaking clearly is now lesson one on the course: words with few syllables, short sentences. Only: the simplification of language, the systematic simplification of positions, reinforces another phenomenon, which no one ever complains about, but which is a problem: that politicians can also hide reality with crystal-clear statements.
The Senate will vote on the Environmental Act on Tuesday. A large-scale but sympathetic project, intended to give people more freedom in matters such as the construction of a dormer window or the organization of a street party. Setting standards, for example for noise pollution or waste processing, will become a municipal task.
The only question is whether it will work. If you give citizens more control over their environment, you can also create more conflicts about that environment. If you give municipalities more control over standards, you can also provoke more objections from citizens. On Monday, NRC revealed that a critical inspection report on this from 2018 has been kept under wraps. The Council of State also previously issued skeptical advice. And Amsterdam lawyer Jan van der Grinten, specialist in environmental law, warned in Trouw of "chaos for citizens, governments and companies".
You already know on whose plate any conflicts about this will end up: the judge's. In the debate on the law in the Senate two weeks ago, Member of Parliament Saskia Kluit (GroenLinks) started talking about parties that complain that judges are engaging in politics, "while we pass legislation here that falls short of clear standards". water to FVD, which has so far supported the Environmental Act because of the simplified procedures, but also complains about the politicization of the judiciary. Former FVD member Henk Otten also reminded FVD senator Johan Dessing that Van der Grinten, the lawyer who was involved in the case. Trouw voor de Wet warned that "the FVD's in-house lawyer" is.
It is true that Paul Cliteur, FVD faction leader in the Senate, recently agreed in his party's YouTube news that the politicization of the judiciary also occurs because politicians hand over "a lot of power" by setting vague standards.
So this is a typical case where two crystal-clear positions obscure political reality. You cannot be against political interference from judges and at the same time agree with the Environmental Act. Then you may have expressed clear views, but what you really find important remains unclear.
Tom-Jan Meeus (t.meeus@nrc.nl; @tomjanmeeus) writes an exchange column here with Lotfi El Hamidi.
Is that possible: being against political interference by judges and supporting the Environmental Act?
Link to PDF

Notes

Tom-Jan Meeus (t.meeus@nrc.nl; @tomjanmeeus) writes an exchange column here with Lotfi El Hamidi.

Load Date: February 10, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")