Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Old zoning plan? No fees
de Volkskrant
December 16, 2016 Friday


Copyright 2016 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 2
Length: 395 words
Byline: JONATHAN WITTEMAN
Body


Plans for a pergola, dormer window or other jobs that require a building permit? Then check how old the zoning plan is for the location where you are going to do the work. Because if the zoning plan is at least ten years old, you do not have to pay construction fees to the municipality - and you can save hundreds, sometimes thousands of euros.

This is due to an obscure article of law that Nijmegen, Zevenaar, Teylingen and other municipalities recently choked on in court. Municipalities can charge fees for all kinds of jobs, from garden sheds to chicken coops or satellite dishes. But not if the zoning plan is ten years or older, according to Article 3.1, paragraph 4 of the Spatial Planning Act (Wro), introduced in 2008. This fine was devised by the legislature as a financial incentive for municipalities to renew their often hopelessly outdated zoning plans. Missing out on construction fees can be a hard blow, because municipalities earned 371 million euros from it in 2014 and more than 600 million euros in 2008.

Municipalities are betting that citizens are not familiar with the article of law. But a pig farmer from Sint-Anthonis was vindicated by the judge when the municipality charged him 3,900 euros in fees for new pig stables and an air scrubber. Zevenaar, Teylingen and Nijmegen also lost out in court this year, just like Nijkerk, Heerlen, Uitgeest and Dantumadeel the year before. In the latter case, the timing was remarkable: a Dantuma dealer submitted his building permit on the day the municipal council adopted a new zoning plan. Because the council meeting extended beyond midnight, the old plan still applied, according to the judge.

After the lost appeal, Teylingen also repaid 20 thousand euros to citizens and companies that had not filed a lawsuit. Nijmegen and Sint-Anthonis will appeal, Zevenaar is the first municipality to go to the Supreme Court.

The Home Owners Association calls it 'improper' that municipalities want to collect fees despite zoning plans that are too old. The Association of Dutch Municipalities also disapproves of this. The VNG does not know how many old zoning plans there are. A new Environmental Act will come into effect in 2019, without the fine for old zoning plans.

Page 26

How Henk Menger fought against the municipality of Weststellingwerf

View the original page: page 2, page 2

Load Date: December 15, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")