Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='It fills up when it rains heavily'; construction plan Noordwijkers fearful of flooding due to future Julianahof
Leidsch Dagblad
December 22, 2023 Friday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 690 words
Byline: Wim Wegman
Body


construction plan Noordwijkers fearful of flooding due to future Julianahof
Residents of the future Julianahof in Noordwijk-Binnen fear major flooding if the houses are there. They have sent a cry for help to the municipal council because they believe that the council is barely paying attention to their concerns.
Noordwijk
Van Rhijn Projectontwikkeling and Woningstichting Stek want to build ten social rental homes and five private sector houses on the site of a former horticultural company on the Albertus van Velsenstraat in Noordwijk-Binnen. A tiny neighborhood.
But no matter how small it is, it causes great unrest among local residents, according to Femke van der Lippe and Lot Coenraads Nederveen. According to them, there are already many moisture problems in the neighborhood and they are afraid that the construction plan will only make them worse. They have asked their neighbors to report the current moisture problems, in the hope of making the seriousness of the situation clear.
During a tour around the former horticultural area, they make it clear what the major risk is in the area. "It is almost two meters lower than the rest of the buildings," says Lot Coenraads Nederveen. "That means that there will be guaranteed flooding. The Wednesday Watering once ran here. It is now covered and foamed, so that water no longer flows. is drained naturally and looks for the lowest point in the area," she says, pointing to the horticultural area that is indeed considerably lower.
According to them, the site quickly floods during a heavy rain shower. "Even in the middle of summer, during a period of drought, it is still humid here. It is striking that it is always green here," adds Femke van der Lippe. The two ladies, who have united with local residents in the Burgerbelang Julianahofje Foundation, point out that in many of the surrounding streets residents are already struggling with moisture problems in their houses. "We have already heard many complaints from the Kerkhofpad, the Pickéstraat, the Wilhelminahofje, the Bronckhorststraat and the Binnenhof," they say.
Waterbed effect
The council is aware that water is a problem in the former horticultural area. In a letter to the municipal council, B and W wrote that they have asked the project developer to take measures to ensure that future and local residents keep dry feet, even if the weather becomes more extreme due to climate change.
That cannot reassure Femke van der Lippe and Lot Coenraads Nederveen, especially because the municipality does not explain what measures the builder must take. "If we manage to solve the problems at that location, won't we get a waterbed effect? Even more moisture nuisance in the neighborhood?" says Femke van der Lippe.
It also bothers the neighborhood that the council wants to submit the zoning plan for review before January 1, so that it can be considered before the introduction of the new Environmental Act. They would like to talk about this with the council members, according to the 'cry for help' to the municipal council, but it will not meet again until February 1.
Flooding is not their only objection to the construction plan. They also fear more traffic in the narrow streets around it and greater parking pressure. Furthermore, they think the number of homes for the location is far too many.
Experts
A spokeswoman for the municipality of Noordwijk emphasizes that concrete measures have been agreed with the project developer to combat the nuisance. The zoning plan also includes a passage about the water problem. She further emphasizes that in the follow-up process, a lot of attention will be paid to testing measures by internal and external specialists.'
According to her, it is not a problem that the plan was submitted for review before January 1, before the Environmental Act comes into effect. “After all, everything else is already in order. In the coming period, the emphasis will be on further research and specific solutions regarding drainage," said the spokeswoman.
Even middle
in the summer, during a period of drought, it is still humid here
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")