Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Plan for greener building lies untouched in the drawer
Leidsch Dagblad
November 1, 2022 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 3
Length: 483 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


To lead
 A plan to include green aspects in construction plans in Leiden when choosing a developer has been sitting untouched in a drawer for quite some time due to a shortage of personnel. This is evident from the answer that the Party for the Animals received when asked about the progress of the project.
For several years now, several municipalities have been experimenting with ways to green construction projects. The hope is mainly based on a points system in which quotations for new projects are also assessed as 'green' and developers who do more about this also have a better chance of getting the job. Especially now that a lot of extra construction needs to be done, there is a lot of enthusiasm for this in politics.
At the request of the Party for the Animals, among others, Leiden also started working on it two years ago, but it now appears that not much has been done with it since then. In the run-up to the budget discussion, party leader Martine van Schaik inquired whether there are already results from an announced test. There aren't any. The project has been halted 'due to progress and a shortage of official capacity', is the answer. Only 'very recently' have there been enough civil servants again.
Van Schaik is not happy about it, to say the least. “Bloody hell. It's just been on the shelf for two years. And then such a summary answer with the message that everything will be fine now. I at least expect that if something comes up, the municipal council will be informed about it. And that there is a schedule for the timeframe we can expect.”
Hesitant stuff
As far as she is concerned, Leiden will simply skip the test for now. “The time for pilots has now passed. If we had started doing that back then, we would have at least made some progress. Let's just get started now. Otherwise, greening will never work out. It's nice that it's now out of the drawer and dusted off, but I'm done with that hesitation."
In January last year, the mayor and aldermen wrote in a letter to the council that municipalities cannot legally enforce 'nature-inclusive construction' on developers and that encouragement is therefore the route to be followed. They can only use a points system for inspiration. But in view of the new Environmental Act - the introduction of which has recently been postponed - it could perhaps be better anchored in the rules. The city council wanted to test this.
"Finally, it is of course very inspiring and useful to show Leiden residents that the municipality is working decisively on nature and ecology in our densely built-up city," the council concluded its letter. "To show developers that we consider this an important theme and to introduce them to the points system, an inspiring brochure is being developed."
The project came to a standstill due to staff turnover and a shortage of civil servants
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 31, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")