Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Politics
 Love for the community is hard to find when there is a change of minister; Letters

NRC
September 6, 2023 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 17
Length: 303 words
Byline: John Bijl
Body


To accommodate the departure of Wopke Hoekstra, Minister Hanke Bruins-Slot of the Interior (BZK) is moving to the Department of Foreign Affairs. The already too busy Minister Hugo de Jonge will take over her portfolio in addition to his own Housing and Spatial Planning. He gets open government, elections and care for municipalities.
It might have been more logical to ask the State Secretary in that department to 'move on'. But the CDA squadron probably did not want to leave this ministerial post to D66 member Alexandra van Huffelen. And so De Jonge can join BZK. But De Jonge's portfolio includes housing and the Environmental Act. Both are large and complex files that require a lot of political and administrative attention.
The minister is already busy, while there is plenty to be done at the Interior and Kingdom Relations, especially for municipalities. Due to all the decentralization and government cuts, municipalities are in dire straits administratively and financially.
Municipalities will have a deficit of billions in the coming years. It is already clear that municipalities will collectively be short of three billion by 2026. Due to a reorganization of the Municipal Fund that the cabinet has not decided on. In youth care, an arbitration judge ruled that municipalities are short of more than one and a half billion annually. Municipalities now hardly dare to make multi-year plans.
Does the government see these concerns? With another substitution it won't come across that way. The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has already been replaced in each of the Rutte cabinets. De Jonge is no less than the seventh minister in ten years. Although the BZK is sometimes called the 'mother department' because of its coordinating and facilitating role for local governments, it does not ooze maternal love.
John Bijl
director of the Perikles Institute
Link to PDF

Notes

director of the Perikles Institute

Graphic

 
Photo ANP

Load Date: September 5, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")