Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Price increase
Leidsch Dagblad
September 17, 2022 Saturday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 14
Length: 1003 words
Body


In these times when inflation is sky-high and energy and food prices are through the roof, it strikes me that no one is being held accountable for additionally raising prices for their own gain. The government should do this, but also benefits from higher VAT and tax revenues. While other countries are much more likely to generously allow the extra income to flow back to their citizens, the Dutch government is not so lenient with this. Under pressure from the stories about the many people who are in trouble, more is now going to happen in this area. The immoral behavior of the energy companies, the oil companies and the supermarket chains, who take the opportunity to increase their profits at the expense of the people, is hardly condemned. Other countries in Europe preceded us in skimming those extra profits and returning them to their citizens. And then you hear the comment from Van Beurden of Shell who says that they use those funds for investments, as if they did not invest before, a matter of life for such a company. It is simply scandalous that people are taking the opportunity and shamelessly participating in the effort to extract even more money from citizens.
Ruud Righolt
Zaandam
Energy charges
Our country is in a major crisis due to rising energy prices and a failing government. The cause is largely due to the war in Ukraine. Strangely enough, the blame for this crisis falls on Jan with the hat. They go bankrupt due to absurdly high energy prices, with their energy often flying out of poorly insulated (rental) homes.
Both the energy companies and our government benefit from this. As a solution, people now want to skim off the profits of the energy companies in order to stick plasters on the people who no longer have money to live on. The real solution is that the energy costs are borne by everyone. This also applies to energy companies and governments. If companies do not want to cooperate, the only solution is nationalization. Now we see the consequences of market forces.
Ton Scholte
Horn
Benschop
Schiphol director Dick Benschop is leaving, but not before he stated in an interview with Luchtvaartnieuws the position of the Board of Directors regarding larger aircraft, a new terminal and yet growth according to the main port model. On all fronts, the 'real estate company with Schiphol flying facilities' achieved an exceptional position in relation to legal obligations and public responsibilities. Politics and the media follow an unimaginable ostrich policy and thus keep the fairy tale of the 'royals' Schiphol and KLM alive.
This raises the question of how it is possible that the national government and the municipality of Amsterdam - D66 minister Kaag and GL mayor Halsema - as responsible shareholders, allow the RSG Boards of Directors to do their thing in continuing to adhere to the mainport and permanent growth model for the airport ? While this goes against the public interest and the requirements regarding climate and living environment set in the new Environmental Act?
Even these top executives seem to be entangled in the web of 'network corruption' that grips countless governing bodies around Schiphol? It seems that these taboos must be broken to really get any movement in the tough Schiphol dossier. A resilient democracy will benefit from addressing and tackling this form of corruption, which subtly penetrates the very fabric of our society.
Jaap de Jong
Uitgeest
Ice rinks
The Netherlands has 22 long-track artificial ice rinks. Compare with Germany (eight, three of which are indoors) or the US (four). No country has more indoor or semi-indoor skating rinks than we do. Wherever you live in the Netherlands (with the exception of parts of Zeeland), you can be at an ice rink almost anywhere in our country within 30 to 45 minutes. And that is nice for the group that skates regularly. According to projectsports.nl, 1.5 percent of Dutch people aged 12 years and older skate on an artificial ice rink every week and 4 percent at least once a year. That is a limited group.
Provided that it is very nice to be able to skate reasonably close everywhere in the Netherlands, it will be a hell of a job to keep all 400-meter rinks open with these energy prices. An additional four thousand euros in Hoorn alone is a huge amount, especially at a time when fundamental choices are required.
To me it is clear where the priority should lie, if the choice is ultimately between being able to continue skating nearby or enabling people to make ends meet financially at at least an acceptable social level. Even if that means that the travel time from your hometown to an artificial ice rink might take just under an hour instead of half an hour.
Jan Olive
Blocker
Own sake
Apparently the reporter of 'Nobody is a match for a lawyer disguised as a chemist' was not aware of an article about Johan Vollebroek written by Lucas Bergkamp and posted on August 27 in Wynia's Week.
It appears that Johan Vollebroek not only litigates on behalf of the public interest (as MOB), but also on behalf of his own interest as Vollenbroek Milieuadvies or as Vollenbroek Milieuadvies BV. Organizations that are afraid of a lawsuit can apparently hire him as an advisor; what do you mean conflict of interest? How can this man bring the Dutch economy to a standstill?
Fred Bauer
Wervershoof
Seawater
Just a quick response to the story about the two men from Seawater who turned salt water into drinkable water. This had to be removed from the supermarket shelves because the packaging may not have been exactly as it should be. Zwerfinator, which brought this matter forward, should be deeply ashamed.
A breakthrough such as those achieved by these men should be welcomed with open arms, not put down.
Joop Gisbers
Assendelft
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 16, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")