Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Test run with new working method
Leidsch Dagblad
October 16, 2017 Monday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 001
Length: 387 words
Byline: Peter van der Hulst
Body


  Noordwijk establishes an environmental vision
Noordwijk Drawing up an environmental vision was one of the biggest jobs for the Noordwijk council of mayor and aldermen. Nearly three years after the announcement, the six hundred page document was adopted by the municipal council.
The national government wants to simplify the rules for spatial developments with the introduction of the Environmental Act in 2021. This makes it easier to set up construction projects. Noordwijk's environmental vision is a local translation of that national policy. All kinds of regulations and policy notes about, for example, parking, traffic circulation and use of the beach have been translated into the comprehensive document. Because only the environmental vision needs to be updated and the revision of dozens of memoranda is no longer necessary, the workload of civil servants is reduced and bureaucracy is reduced. The initiative for all kinds of plans comes much more from residents, companies, associations and social organizations. The municipality then checks whether the initiatives are in line with all the frameworks in the environmental vision. And also whether they fit with the seven key points that have been formulated. Noordwijk focuses on a versatile economy and tourism, attractive village centres, an attractive living environment, an energetic society, good sports opportunities, excellent accessibility and rich nature. In order to clearly see whether interests - for example economy and nature - conflict with each other, a number of pilot projects are designated. VVD, CDA and D66 would have preferred that these experiments first take place before the vision was finally established. Councilor Hans Bakker embraces these so-called 'crash tests', but for 'real authenticity'. “We have been on the road for about 2.5 years. The time has come to determine this. We want to get started and I see no reason to postpone this for another six months." Ultimately, VVD and CDA withheld their support. In anticipation of the municipal reorganization, Noordwijkerhout will draw up its own environmental vision. This ensures that companies, residents and organizations in the village can participate in discussions about future plans. Only at a later stage will both plans be 'coupled'.

Load Date: October 15, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")