Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The province now really wants Frisians to think along
Friesch Dagblad
January 21, 2021 Thursday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group BVAll Rights Reserved


Length: 606 words
Body


Ideas to invite residents to participate more actively
Leeuwarden Citizen participation has been pursued so often by the government that it almost sounds like an empty shell. But this time, the province of Fryslân, in collaboration with the Frisian municipalities and Wetterskip Fryslân, really wants to work on an involved democracy in which residents actively participate. To this end, Arno Brok, King's Commissioner, presented a memorandum on behalf of the Provincial Council yesterday that should serve as a starting point for discussion about democratic innovation in Fryslân.
Some concrete ideas came out in April last year. For example, a group of Frisians from a broad field could form the 'Senate of Fryslân' to jointly provide government authorities with advice. Frisians can comment on various themes on a digital platform. More ideas were discussed yesterday, such as drawing up a citizens' budget by a cross-section of the Frisian population. A step further is to free up part of a budget to invite Frisians to develop proposals for that budget. The best three ideas can be submitted to States or council members.
Coalition formation after the elections should also be different, with a less detailed administrative agreement and directors appointed in a personal capacity. These ideas have previously been the subject of discussion in the Provincial Council. Albert van Dijk, Member of Parliament of Forum for Democracy, is in favor of this innovation. "It is also about people feeling more involved in their government than during elections four times a year. There is still a lot to gain."
Yesterday during the presentation of the memorandum, the word 'collaboration' was often mentioned. Brok thinks that Fryslân as a regional province can show how things can be done differently. "By feangreide we realize that it is in the subject that in soad minsken rackets and that everyone is talking about it. That is a good idea of ​​how we talk about our climate and culture. May you simply use it with the knowledge and experts you have in your local household."
Flat government is an important starting point for success, estimates Fred Veenstra, who spoke as chairman of the Association of Frisian Municipalities (FVG) and is also mayor of De Fryske Marren. "No, there is no such thing as the Thorbecke model in the house where you have to climb up to get some food. That sometimes leads to weak arguments. If you live in Fryslân in a bungalow built without distractions, all the original features are the same."
According to Veenstra, municipalities are still the first government that residents turn to when they have a question or a problem. "Then the municipalities had to help them to keep residents safe," he said. In De Fryske Marren and Heerenveen, initiatives have been taken to involve residents more in local decision-making. Veenstra mentioned the starting document on administrative renewal of the province ambitious. He warned not to want too much at the same time. "As you were in the panel, you were ready, you walked between the beams and just me."
Member of Parliament Hetty Janssen drew attention to the role of young people in democratic government. Michiel Schrier, Member of Parliament for the SP, thinks that the plan is timely, judging by the changing legislation and regulations. “If you look at the Environmental Act, you will see that the participation process is already included in it. These are good developments."
The political discussion about the starting document will soon be continued in the province.
Lit in Fryslân in a bungalow built without ferdjippings, all the original features are the same

Load Date: April 1, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")