Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=PvdA sidelined in Leiderdorp coalition formation
Leidsch Dagblad
April 5, 2018 Thursday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 006
Length: 349 words
Byline: Aad Rietveld
Body


  Leiderdorp Formateur Hugo Langenberg of the Local Party Leiderdorp will negotiate a new coalition with VVD and CDA. The PvdA, which already announced before the elections that it wanted to continue the current cooperation with LPL, VVD and CDA, has been left out.
By negotiating only with VVD and CDA, Langenberg opts for a coalition that is based on the smallest possible majority in the municipal council. Together the three parties have 11 of the 21 seats. Shortly after the elections, in which the LPL went from two to four seats, Langenberg said that he thought a majority of one seat was too narrow. “If there is a bully in some party who says: 'I'm getting out,' then you've been seen.” Now he says that the current coalition minus the PvdA is 'the combination that has the best chance of success'. “Involving other parties leads to resistance from one of the three.” Olaf McDaniel, the current PvdA councilor in Leiderdorp, says he does not really understand the choice of the formateur. “I think we have worked well together in a four-party coalition over the past year and a half. I am very surprised that my presence apparently leads to resistance from one of the parties. I haven't heard anything about that from Hugo either.” The choice for a coalition of three parties with a minimal majority is also 'a very risky approach', according to the PvdA leader. “This shows an underestimation of the major challenges Leiderdorp faces, including in the areas of the Environmental Act and decentralization in healthcare.” McDaniel finds it strange that Langenberg chooses to work with the losers of the elections. VVD and CDA both lost a seat, the PvdA won one. “Unfortunately, we can no longer contribute to policy. That's a shame, but there is no other way." Langenberg thinks that LPL, VVD and CDA will have completed their coalition program at the end of May. “And then we present it to the citizens,” says the informant. “We will incorporate the opposition's wishes. We are really going to listen to the opposition.”

Load Date: April 4, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")