Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Leeuwarden Council agrees to a separate peat meadow status
Friesch Dagblad
September 14, 2021 Tuesday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 384 words
Byline: Marianne Velsink
Body


Farmers are concerned about the consequences of their environmental vision
Leeuwarden The Municipal Executive of the municipality of Leeuwarden received support yesterday for the draft environmental plan for the South rural area. 21 council members voted in favor of the plan and fifteen against.
The area, the former municipality of Boarnsterhim, is part of a trial in which Leeuwarden gains experience with the new Environmental Act. This includes all rules for the physical environment. It is a new way of working. The plan therefore still concerns building blocks for the environmental plan, which should ultimately lead to a fully-fledged plan.
The first draft was available for inspection for six weeks in January and led to unrest among farmers in the area. In addition to the area types Village, Agricultural and Nature, the area type Veenweide has been added. Many farmers are on peat meadow land bordering the De Alde Feanen Natura 2000 area. The proposal states that 'the municipality will not cooperate in new developments aimed at expanding stables and livestock herds at companies in the peat meadow area'. Farmers fear that they will be limited in their business operations.
Last night, many parties supported an amendment by the VVD that called for peat meadow to be deleted as an area type. The amendment received support from the VVD, Lijs058, CDA, FNP and GBL, but did not receive a majority (fifteen in favor, 21 against).
According to Sietze Bouma of the VVD, farmers are disappointed that there has been hardly any consultation about the area types and what consequences this has. "That worries the farmers. Friesland is an agricultural province and Leeuwarden is the agricultural capital. We must deal with these people carefully," Bouma said.
Councilor Bert Wassink (GroenLinks) admitted that the consultation with farmers could have been better. He indicated that in the future there will be room to determine what the exact boundaries of the area type should be and whether exceptions should be made. At the same time he diminished the role of the municipality. “Wetterskip Fryslân determines what type of soil an area has. Not the council.”
He also emphasized the greater importance of reducing CO2 emissions in the peat meadow area. He called on the council "not to bury its head in the sand".
Friesland is an agricultural province and Leeuwarden is the agricultural capital
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 20, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")