Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The commotion around Warren continues with the pilot Environmental Plan
Friesch Dagblad
February 13, 2021 Saturday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group BVAll Rights Reserved


Length: 842 words
Body


In a pilot project in such a controversial area, it is free to wjerstân
Burgum "We may in this way create a movement, and if we don't start to ride it, let everyone rise up," says Simon Meinema of De Warren Natural Green about the planning for the controversial site to the west of Burgum. "That's what you thought about you inisjatyf."
In July 2019, the Tytsjerksteradiel council rejected a plan for housing in De Warren. A citizens' initiative was then launched to preserve the landscape values ​​of the area and provide space for extensive, nature-inclusive agriculture, community vegetable farming and a sales point for regional products. The council had passages about building in De Warren removed from the Housing Vision and the Framework Memorandum.
"Then you should be able to assume that building is really out of the picture," says Theo Claassen of the initiative group, which also includes four farmers from the area. The agricultural nature association Noardlike Fryske Wâlden, It Fryske Gea and Landschapsbeheer Friesland, among others, provide support the plans.
But in the meantime, more interested parties have registered for the site of a total of about fifty hectares. Horse transport company Horses2Fly from Jistrum would like to start a riding school on twenty hectares in the northeastern part of the area.
Project developer TOECK from Burgum has also submitted a vision document to the municipality for the construction of "more than twenty and less than 150 homes", according to Dennis Heins of TOECK, on ​​"less than half of those fifty hectares".
Heins believes that the municipality is "missing a great opportunity" if it does not opt ​​for housing. "The municipality already owns the land and the pressure on the housing market is enormous."
According to Heins, this has increased so much recently that there is a new situation compared to 2019. "A majority in the council did not like the plan at the time. But there is now a new plan."
Heins envisions a residential area with houses on the water, detached or in a block, and to the north possibly space for a residential group, where the surrounding space is managed jointly by the residents. "For the entire plan, we are thinking of about thirty homes in the lower segment and the rest in the middle to higher segment."
That would offer the best opportunities for the municipality to make some financial profit from the operation, says Heins. "I would like to warn against overly ambitious requirements in advance. If you want to do one step better than the competition, for example in terms of sustainability, you quickly pay a hefty price for it."
Pilot project
The city council has now determined that De Warren will become a pilot project for the new Environmental Act, in which everyone can participate in a plan. Also TOECK.
The current Housing Vision does not allow building in De Warren, but De Warren Naturally Green is afraid that the council will simply ask the council to adjust it if it is pleased with the new housing plan.
"We were there first and now everything is suddenly open again," says Claassen. He is also critical of the way in which the municipality has dealt with the citizens' initiative. "There are rules laid down as to how a municipality should do this. These include: more: offering tailor-made help and support and actively informing about the possibilities. We have not experienced that. We always have to ask the municipality for information about other plans for the area and only receive it sparingly."
In a written response from communications advisor Hielke Jan Ellens, Tytsjerksteradiel does not respond to questions about that criticism: 'The municipality has periodic contact with the initiators of De Warren Natural Green.' In its response, the municipality mainly points to the 'further reflection on De Warren' that will take place in the coming months in the pilot Environmental Plan.
From the table
According to the initiative group, there would hardly be anything left of their plan if a riding school and housing were to be built. The communal vegetable and fruit gardens are then off the table anyway and there is not enough land left for extensification of agriculture to do this profitably, says farmer Eddy Westra.
Heins from TOECK actually understands the dissatisfaction of the citizens' initiative group. "You could say that we are a bit parasitic on their plan. I understand that they are not happy at all. But one question is whether their plan is financially feasible. Let's talk about it together."
For the time being, the Warren Natural Green is sticking to its own proposal. "In a pilot project in such a controversial area, it is a matter of freedom," says Meinema. "We sharpen the knives and within ready for a full disk."
The intention is that the council will provide frameworks and conditions for the pilot Environmental Plan in March and that discussions will then take place to draw up the plan, which will probably be sent to the council in the summer.
We have created this ride and have not started to ride, let everyone jump to their ears

Load Date: April 1, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")