Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Revolution in municipal land
Leidsch Dagblad
January 21, 2017 Saturday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 007
Length: 1026 words
Byline: Peter van der Hulst
Body


  Noordwijk has the second place in the Netherlands for environmental vision on paper
Noordwijk After the transfer of healthcare tasks from the central government to the municipalities, the next major operation awaits. After Westvoorne, Noordwijk is the second place to anticipate the national introduction of the Environmental Act in 2019. Consequences: more initiative from citizens, a completely different working method for civil servants and - perhaps most importantly - a reduction in bureaucracy. In short, a revolution in municipal land.
There are seven impressive reports on the table. The almost two hundred pages together form the new environmental vision, a document that describes the future developments of Noordwijk until 2030. But what about reducing bureaucracy? Isn't there still a large package of choices, frameworks and ambitions? However, the extensive dossier makes the annual production of many policy papers on, for example, parking, traffic circulation and greenery redundant. The official workload has thus been reduced by approximately thirteen hundred pages. Time that can be used to directly serve the citizen.
Integral
Instead of departments - spatial planning, healthcare, environment, etc. - assessing plans independently of each other, this will be done integrally in the future. Officials from different disciplines come together to guide initiatives. This makes it easier to prevent decisions that are sometimes incomprehensible to citizens. Councilor Hans Bakker calls the renovation plan for the old fire station on Bronckhorstraat an example from which lessons can be learned. “There was an excellent plan for a lunchroom, but in the end our own policy got in our way. For example, according to the rules, there had to be two parking spaces near the lunchroom. That was not possible, so the plan did not go ahead.”
Seven stars
This must be different in the future. Noordwijk has developed seven stars with a nod to the rating system in the hotel industry. In no particular order, these are: versatile economy and tourism, attractive village centres, attractive living environment, energetic society, excellent accessibility and rich nature, great sports opportunities and beautiful landscape. Bakker: “If a plan contributes to one of these stars, we must do everything we can to make it possible.” “We are then much more focused on implementation within a flexible organization,” Marcel van Veen makes clear. In recent months, the project leader has worked with many colleagues on the development of the environmental vision. It is now still a design that will be explained during a public information evening in the town hall on Monday. The plan will then be submitted for consultation. Before the summer, the municipal council will consider the environmental vision. “This is the vision of Noordwijk society. All the policies are in here. We have retained the many good things from the past. In addition, it is a dynamic document. It is adjusted annually to the most recent developments. As Noordwijk we can be very proud of this,” says Bakker with the necessary enthusiasm about the pile of paper on the table. The councilor is especially proud of the fact that Noordwijk society has fully participated in the creation of the current design vision. The future of Noordwijk has been outlined with residents, entrepreneurs, young people, organizations and council members. Although the enthusiasm was not present among everyone in the beginning. Why make another report on everything that is actually already on paper? was the general criticism. Moreover, the timing was unfortunate. The many brainstorming sessions took place at a time when the new construction plans of Hotels van Oranje dominated the political discussion. Opposition parties did not agree with the way the process was conducted. They left the council chamber angrily and organized their own discussion evening. There was even a citizens' initiative in the sophisticated Noordwijk to put this 'script' on hold. The tide now seems to have turned. Bakker refers to Cees van Wijk's New Year's speech. The chairman of the Noordwijk Entrepreneurs Association (NOV) said seven stars was a bit much to remember. “But it doesn't really matter what those stars are, what is much more important is that they actually 'shine'. Because a star that does not shine is not a dot on the horizon,” Van Wijk told his audience. Bakker: “The tone of voice is different now than two years ago.”
Invitation
Through the recently formed entrepreneurial fund, the NOV wants to contribute to a better entrepreneurial climate in the village, but the municipality also encourages citizens to come up with plans. Bakker: “The environmental vision is an invitation to society to take advantage of opportunities. If you participate, it means that you believe in the plans yourself. It also makes you shine.” The councilor believes that people who have difficulty finding their way to the town hall can also be mobilized. Neighborhood teams and neighborhood associations can play a role in this. He cites the social projects at Duinwetering sports park as an example. In a short time, sixty people who were at a distance from the labor market registered for this. “And of course there are frameworks that plans must comply with, but our role will mainly be facilitating. The question then is: what do people need to realize something?” To find out the state of Noordwijk, a look at the environmental vision is sufficient from now on. The seven stars have been translated into ambitions and ultimately projects. Until 2030, this is how it is stated what will happen and when. “How do we increase the accessibility of the village is such a strategic theme. But also how do we strengthen the healthcare cluster. For example, we want a study into healthcare tourism, the establishment of a health resort. And we have indicated that we want a clustering of cultural institutions around the Vuurtorenplein,” says Bakker. The document also serves as a guideline for all major construction projects that need to be realized in Noordwijk.
 Citizen initiative, less bureaucracy

Load Date: January 20, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")