Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='The government must become more involved in local climate policy'
Friesch Dagblad
March 28, 2024 Thursday


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 568 words
Byline: Wybe Fraanje
Highlight: Leeuwarden To prevent national objectives in the field of CO2 reduction and green energy from going wrong, the central government must exercise more control over municipalities, provinces and water boards. The Public Administration Council advises this in a report published on Thursday.
Body


The ROB, an independent advisory body that issues this advice on behalf of the Ministry of Energy and Climate, fears that it is unclear whether the energy and climate policy of municipalities, provinces and water boards together is sufficient to achieve the climate objectives. The 2019 Climate Agreement stated that all so-called decentralized authorities must cooperate in a 49 percent reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 (compared to 1990). This has now been tightened to 55 percent. Ultimately, it has been agreed that all governments must work climate neutrally by 2050.
According to the ROB, local governments are the most suitable to implement climate policy, because the Environmental Act and zoning plans are involved, because they have insight into social support, and because there is more close democratic control. However, the ROB fears that it is unclear whether all individual decentralized measures add up to the national CO2 reduction target.
Out of view
That shared objective is in danger of 'falling out of focus due to a lack of coordination and direction'. The ROB also fears that one decentralized government is making more of an effort for the climate than another. The advisory council believes that the government should have an instrument at its disposal to force local governments to contribute to the progress of goals. This is now only possible in the field of generating sustainable energy. The ROB refers to the reception of asylum seekers, to which some municipalities are more prepared than others, and for which a national system (the Distribution Act) has been set up.
The shortage on the electricity grid and the labor market are factors that require national management, according to the ROB. The national management could look like the Regional Energy Strategies, in which thirty RES regions work on the national target of generating 35 TWh of green energy in 2030.
Financing
The government must also contribute sufficiently to municipal and provincial tasks, the ROB advises. An 'important precondition' is that there is enough money and that there must be guarantees that the government will continue to contribute. 'Multi-year certainty' is necessary, also after 2030, because municipalities and provinces work with multi-year budget cycles.
The ROB expects that investments by local authorities will be almost half higher than an earlier estimate in 2020, because climate and energy policy is becoming increasingly complex and the tasks for lower authorities are becoming more numerous. In 2025, municipalities are expected to invest 775 million euros in climate and energy policy, rising to more than a billion in 2023. The investment of provinces will fluctuate from an estimated 64 million euros next year to 59 million in 2030.
According to ROB calculations, water boards will invest 37 million next year, decreasing to 30 million in 2030. The ROB advises the government to allocate 5.9 billion for the years 2025-2030.
Core tasks
In principle, water boards must pay the costs themselves from the taxes they levy. Only if the measures are insufficiently related to the core tasks of the water board could it be eligible for a government grant. This is (now) not the case. If the costs differ too much between the water boards, they could create a solidarity scheme to divide the costs equally, the ROB advises.
Link to PDF

Load Date: March 28, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")