Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Rijnhaven becomes 'exciting'
Leidsch Dagblad
January 18, 2016 Monday


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION
Length: 312 words
Body


 Alphen aan den Rijn "All kinds of exciting things can soon happen in the Rijnhaven-Oost area."
Alphen councilor Tsaerd Hoekstra expects that new rules can make an important contribution to revitalizing the 'cluttered' neighborhood west of De Baronie shopping center. The municipality is working on an 'environmental plan', which should replace the current zoning plan. Last week, the alderman informed the political parties in Alphen about new possibilities in the area. As far as he is concerned, it will be a vibrant mix of living, working and recreation. "We are one of the first, if not the first, municipalities to work with an environmental plan," says Hoekstra. The intended environmental plan is a precursor to the Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2018. Rijnhaven-Oost has been designated by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment as a project to test the new rules. Houses, businesses and catering establishments are easier to mix with the new rules than is currently possible with zoning plans. This has to do, among other things, with more flexible standards for noise pollution.
Market parties
According to Hoekstra, Rijnhaven-Oost will be changed in the coming years with the help of 'invitation planning'. This means that entrepreneurs, housing associations and other market parties can come up with ideas themselves and put them together. The environmental plan specifies the conditions under which this is allowed. "We leave the redevelopment to the market," said municipal lawyer Esther Poot. "It will not be the municipality that acquires land and comes up with plans." Rijnhaven-Oost is hardly in use as a port anymore. There is 'clutter' on the 70 hectare industrial estate, including due to containers placed here and there and a number of departed companies. The municipality will make the new design rules for Rijnhaven-Oost available for inspection from January 28.

Load Date: January 17, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")