Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Spatial plans Oegstgeest are 'good'
Leidsch Dagblad
September 30, 2022 Friday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 4
Length: 510 words
Byline: Anne de Vries
Body


Oegstgeest
On Wednesday evening, residents of Oegstgeest shot their arrows at the municipality's 'environmental vision': a document with all policy plans and ambitions for roads, housing and greenery.
"It could all be a bit more exciting, it's a bit well-behaved," was the overarching conclusion of the evening. In the council chamber of the town hall, about thirty residents and councilors met to discuss the municipality's ambitions. Many residents thought things were still a bit tame and asked for more decisions 'where things were a bit of a problem'.
The plans and ambitions in the document vary from general - 'preserve and cherish national and municipal monuments' - to concrete: 'no solar fields and wind turbines on Elsgeesterpolder grassland'.
Childcare
The municipality also designates focus areas for the energy transition and which neighborhoods should start before 2030, such as Nieuw-Rhijngeest and the Morsebel. She lists the needs for each district. For example, Oudenhof and Poelgeest would have a greater need for childcare and care homes.
The 'environmental vision' is therefore ahead of the Environment Act, which will come into effect in January 2023. The law bundles all rules and guidelines for spatial developments, such as housing. Oegstgeest, with the help of consultancy firm RHO Adviseurs, has already collected the existing policy plans of the municipality in the environmental vision and supplemented them with wishes for the future.
Space and housing councilor Elfred Bus (D66) explained it this way on Wednesday evening: "For example, if you want to start a petting zoo yourself, you can look on the map to see where that is possible. If you then go to the municipality, you have a better chance of coming together, because the plan fits well with what we want together in a certain area."
This applies to residents and commercial developers, he emphasized. “If a developer comes to me, I will ask him: have you looked at the environmental vision? For example, do you know that we want twenty-five percent social housing?"
Voscuyl
On Wednesday, the Oegstgeest residents present poked some holes in the political wishes. Some were concerned about the number of plans around the Voscuyl district for sports and housing and the discussions about a swimming pool in the neighborhood. The residents of Buitenlust wondered where the social housing should be located, and whether it could not be better distributed throughout the village.
The approach to aviation nuisance in the village should also be tightened, a resident said. And not all protected village views are yet clearly marked on the map.
Residents especially lacked courage; The municipality should 'dare to overhaul' certain areas. Multiple ambitions and plans also clash with each other: how are the choices made and how are all these plans ultimately implemented?
Residents can submit their views on the environmental vision to the municipality until October 26, so that all ideas can be taken into account when the council discusses the plans. The municipality hopes to adopt the vision in January 2023.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 29, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")