Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Spatial challenge
Friesch Dagblad
February 12, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 675 words
Body


In addition to trends and developments, we have defined four major challenges in our publication Leven in Friesland. One of those challenges is to maintain and strengthen the quality of space and landscape in Fryslân.
We discussed the results of the report last week with Frisian administrators and policymakers. Our research shows that many people believe that the landscape has deteriorated in recent years and that they are concerned about wind turbines and other energy generation. We know that the Frisian landscape and the sense of space are important for the Frisian identity, it scores even higher than the Frisian language. But when asked what the most important topic is for the municipal elections, our panel members answer 'building and living'. That is added to the landscape.
There's more to come. The Hague has the funds ready for the necessary sustainable energy generation, with cables, masts, turbines and panels. To tackle the nitrogen problem with interventions in green space. For biodiversity, for water quality and water levels. For 100,000 homes per year and the extra railway line to the North - although it is only half budgeted. Big plans with a lot of urgency; the climate goals have been signed. All with consequences for the landscape, the view, flora and fauna, and recreation. The highly valued living environment of many people, how can you maintain and even strengthen it?
The changes (the transitions) in the ways of working, earning money, eating and using energy collide with each other and are reflected in the rural area. The route to the Environmental Act was started a long time ago. This ensures that various goals and interests will be considered integrally: agricultural use, climate, natural values, recreation, housing, infrastructure. Municipalities can then make decisions with the involvement of all citizens and farmers, companies and interest groups. This law is postponed time and time again because it is a mega operation to decentrally weave together more than 150 laws and regulations behind one counter and to organize knowledge accordingly. And the necessary ICT is still far from in order. (ICT, always difficult.)
In the meantime, The Hague is tightening the reins and taking more control in terms of planning, in particular the spatial planning of infrastructure and housing. The unease about the data boxes and distribution centers was a reason and the difficulty that municipalities and provinces have in making choices for energy generation locations also makes the central government nervous. Processes take a long time, investments are not made, money is not available, the judge bans goat paths and goals are not achieved.
The residents themselves are more likely to resist changes. Is that good for the rural area? Resistance shows commitment, good. But also: in our small country no living environment can be completely protected from the consequences of social choices. So make something of it. The challenge for regional authorities is to take up area development together with residents and also to identify and secure desired values, such as peace and space. Making changes possible in your own area with your own considerations and plans outweighs seeing change as a damage to the living environment and identity. An opportunity also for politics!
In terms of content, it is mainly about linking opportunities in the area. Recreation in a more diverse agricultural landscape with integrated nature, energy generation at industrial estates, designating functions in the most efficient environment, etc.
Just this. The landscape has always been the result of human intervention, in response to the water, out of the need for housing and mobility, as a result of innovation, under the influence of globalization. And more than the fixed image of the green plain with a cow, Fryslân is about the experience of peace and space, living and recreating there. Most feasible.
The transitions in working, earning money, eating and energy collide with each other and are reflected in rural areas
Link to PDF

Load Date: February 11, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")