Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Rutte thanks you for services rendered
de Volkskrant
September 19, 2017 Tuesday


Copyright 2017 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 6, 7
Length: 2191 words
Byline: BY THE POLITICAL EDITORIAL / ILLUSTRATION BAS VAN DER SCHOT
Highlight: The longest-serving post-war cabinet is heading towards the end. Rutte II tackled the crisis stoically, but failed to endear himself. How will the ministers go down in political history?
Body


Mark Rutte (VVD)
General Affairs
Fourteen years in the cabinet since 2002, seven years as Prime Minister: no politician since Wim Kok has left his mark on the country for so long. Yet it is still difficult for many to understand.

If he governed alone, he would follow the principles of Friedrich von Hayek, the philosopher-economist he admired, who inspired Reagan and Thatcher to cut back government. But no-nonsense manager Rutte rules anything but alone. He has made governance as a group process his specialty in a time of political fragmentation and volatile voter preferences. With every new reality a different Mark Rutte. Social liberal in Balkenende II, revanchist right in Rutte I, pragmatic reformer in Rutte II. Eurosceptic in The Hague, European in Brussels.

Soon on the platform with his fourth and fifth coalition partners, he will change color again. Will that end well for him? That is no certainty for anyone who knows the law of paint mixing: the more colors, the less light.
Edith Schippers (VVD)
Public health
She leaves the Binnenhof, but for how long? The ambition to become the first female prime minister will have to be put on hold as long as Rutte remains in office. But she has the allure. Her fearless and drastic reform of healthcare, her control of her ministry's expenditure - she leaves a mark. A temperamental minister who dares to go her own way. By surprising friend and foe with the announcement that the government wants to work on regulations for a completed life. By asserting with aplomb that Western civilization is superior to Islam. A stateswoman in the making, especially because she tackles her jobs cheerfully and energetically. Until... that damned formation called on her. And at an unguarded moment she ended up in the same room with Mr. Pechtold and Mr. Segers. Who came out again three hours later with hot heads. Thus giving the would-be stateswoman a lesson in caution.
Dijsselbloem (PvdA)
Finances
PvdA members who become Minister of Finance are happy to put an end to the prejudice, whether existing or not, that PvdA members prefer to throw away billions in order to make the government as big as possible and do nice things for left-wing people. Just like Duisenberg, Kok and Bos, Dijsselbloem would like to show that PvdA members are not spendthrifts. What's called: the Wageningen agricultural economist completed the largest cutbacks of all time.

The lion's share of that 50 billion was ordered by a coalition that did not include the PvdA, but, oh horror, the more tolerable PVV. The price for Dijsselbloem is that he continues through life as a tight-fisted, right-wing conservative PvdA MP. Economists do not consider it to be Dijsselbloem's merit that the economy started to run like clockwork again under his rule. Economic growth could have been much greater, they say, if the Eurogroup president had not devastated the economy. The debate about this will continue for a while.

H
enk Kamp (VVD)
Economics
The tax investigator from Borculo will certainly go down in the parliamentary history books: Henk Kamp became minister of four different departments four times in four new cabinets. As soon as there is a new cabinet, his long political life will end. What you see is what you get, fans and political opponents praise the Camp recipe. Sturdy and unflappable - the Defense Department loved the Tukker. It is a pity that he later advocated major cuts in the armed forces as Minister of Social Affairs.

After that, the steep Minister of Economic Affairs seemed like a logical match with Groningen residents, especially when Kamp was the first to turn off the gas tap. Groningen's praise for Kamp's courage stopped when he called those earthquakes a fact of life - 'my fault'.

In twenty years' time, 'Groningen gas' will be synonymous with 'Henk Kamp', but so will 'offshore wind'. The car fanatic has greened up. His parting gift: a huge wind farm on the North Sea. To the satisfaction of the VVD member, the wind turbines run more on wind than on subsidies.
Melanie Schultz (VVD)
Traffic
It is the fate of a transport minister: the most visible actions are small beer in the light of world history. Westerterp had the seat belt, Maij-Weggen the carpool lane and Schultz the 130 kilometers. A bull's eye from a VVD perspective. For decades, grateful motorists will think they recognize Schultz's face in every 130 sign. Or else the VVD logo.

Although mediagenic thanks to a loose presentation in the media and the House, she limited her public appearances. She did not seek the heat of the debate. In style, she guided the enormous Environmental Act to the Staatsblad under the radar and without significant opposition. Schultz did not remain completely invisible. She believes that after her departure from politics she can go to a company with which she did business as a minister. And an endless photo collage can be made of its first piles, tunnel openings and ceremonial transfers of Dutch water knowledge and skills to foreign countries. And of course all those revelations of yet another 130 board.

L
illiane Ploumen (PvdA)
Development cooperation
To the horror of the Dutch aid clubs, she was the first minister to combine aid and trade. She called the one billion euro cutbacks she had to make 'painful', but the damage could be limited by increasing trade with poor countries. “New style development aid,” she said. Those who argued that aid and trade did not go together called Ploumen 'old-fashioned'.

Second reason for the frenzy: she cut subsidies. They fell by more than 50 percent. Aid organizations still complain that they are mainly fighting among themselves over money. Ploumen is said to have 'desouled' the aid sector.

On the other hand, there are admirers. She fought with passion for international agreements on fair clothing. With her action against Trump's anti-abortion measures, Ploumen won worldwide admiration. She raised millions so that girls remain in charge of their own bellies. Photos of Ploumen in a Superwoman suit appeared on the websites of the BBC and The New York Times.

In a few years' time, if someone can't think of Ploumen's name, it could be said: 'You know, that female minister from that country who defied the powerful president of America.'
Bert Koenders (PvdA)
Foreign Affairs
The well-read man who can deliberate endlessly. Shall we also deploy F-16s over Syria? Should we wind down the mission in Mali or Afghanistan?

To the delight of his diplomats, Koenders likes to think carefully before making a decision. He defies the trend of ministers who like to be updated by their staff in one A4 sheet of paper. No, please provide well-researched analyzes about the emergency situation of the Rohingya in Myanmar.

He has a deep-rooted belief that the Netherlands can really contribute something on the international stage. Peace in Syria? As a Dutchman, he simply struggles between meetings that deal with this.

He is easily listened to, partly because he has read up very carefully on the ifs and buts of his interlocutors. It makes him a welcome guest in diplomatic circles. As he walks through the corridors of the UN building in New York, he shakes hands with an African minister here, an Asian acquaintance there.

Not everyone's friend, by the way. Dictators should be confronted about their behavior, he believes. The Netherlands is concerned about the human rights situation in China, Russia or elsewhere; you hear Koenders say it like this. The trading interests or small size of the Netherlands certainly do not hold him back. Left-wing voters think it is ideal. The Dutch right will not mourn his departure.
Jeanine Hennis (VVD)
defence
She has come to love her men and shows it - Hennis in a snow cave with Marines in Norway, Hennis hanging from a parachute, Hennis flying past in an F16. She worked on far-reaching cooperation with foreign armed forces. For example, part of the Dutch and German army has now been merged. And the navy has partially merged with the Belgians.

The military appreciates her involvement, but also points out the empty wallet. She inherited an austerity package of one billion euros. It was only in the summer of 2014 - when war broke out in Crimea, IS showed its true colors and flight MH17 was shot down - that Hennis, as the first Defense Minister in years, received a few hundred million more. But it is too little and too late to go down as the minister who made the difference. The woman who wanted to make the armed forces stronger, but could not get the money for it - it is the cross that Hennis has to bear.
Stef Blok (VVD)
Housing/Justice
'The jewel of the cabinet', PvdA colleague Ronald Plasterk recently called him, quite surprisingly. For a long time, VVD minister Stef Blok looked like a closed oyster. With the Housing and Public Service portfolio, Blok got what he wanted, a ministership, but there was not much honor to be gained from that. Well, he concluded the housing agreement and sold Soestdijk Palace. Anyway.

But look, since January he has been at Security and Justice, the post where the VVD made so many havoc. Not so Blok, who has just revived. Even his supposed departure from politics is no longer certain. He speaks to Parliament and the press calmly and confidently. With an occasional dash of humor.

Member of Parliament since 1998, campaign leader in the 2010 parliamentary elections that made the VVD the largest party for the first time. Afterwards, he was chairman of the party under Rutte I. Should this veteran retire, he will be remembered as a silent force behind liberal glory years.
Jet Bussemaker (PvdA)
Education
She comes and she goes. Jet Bussemaker has been moving between Amsterdam and The Hague all her working life. After her membership of Parliament and subsequent State Secretariat for Health, Welfare and Sport in Balkenende IV, Jet Bussemaker (56) left politics in 2010. Final. We thought.

But her position as rector of the Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences turned out to be an intermezzo. In 2012, Bussemaker returned to the Binnenhof, as Minister of Education, Culture and Science. She did it as we know her: moving along with the House when necessary, fiercely speaking out when she felt unfairly treated.

She defended the loan system and championed vocational education. "What bothers me is that everyone only wants to move up," she said in the Volkskrant two years ago, a bold statement for a social democrat. It haunted her, she felt misunderstood. She meant: if you find happiness with an MBO diploma, that's fine too. Think of it as her legacy.
Lodewijk Asscher (PvdA)
Social Affairs
He was the great promise from Amsterdam, but now that Asscher's deputy prime minister is nearing the end, the former crown prince is full of scratches and scars. The Rutte II adventure led to the greatest political defeat ever; social democracy in the Netherlands is faltering. Asscher is partly responsible for this, just like his ousted predecessor Diederik Samsom.

There are certainly things to be proud of. The Netherlands is in better shape, the cabinet was able to finish the race. Asscher has also started to reduce flexibility in the labor market. The only question is what will remain of this if a center-right coalition soon takes control of Social Affairs.

Asscher has already shown that he is also an opposition leader, but at the same time the political facts are inexorable. Nine seats. How far does that get you? It is that heavy legacy that Asscher is currently carrying.
Ronald Plasterk (PvdA)
Home Affairs
Plasterk's legacy could well be a new referendum. In his twilight years, the troubled PvdA minister still managed to get new policy through Parliament: the so-called law on intelligence services. Tens of thousands of people have now signed a referendum on this 'trail law', which, according to opponents, threatens the freedom of the internet.

Plasterk's career seems to end where it started. The former top scientist made a name for himself on the sidelines during the referendum campaign on the EU Constitution (2005). Not much later he came to The Hague as a heavyweight. He himself would have dreamed of a premiership at that time.

Things turned out differently. Plasterk's ministership in Rutte II was unhappy. Many of his resolutions failed. He barely survived a vote of no confidence after an unjustified accusation against American intelligence services. Plasterk persevered, but the shine never returned.

Earlier this year he seemed to quietly announce his comeback as an idiosyncratic commentator. After the elections, he argued for a merger of the PvdA and GroenLinks factions.
This is perhaps one of the best ministerial councils since the Second World War
7

View the original page: page 6, page 7

Load Date: September 18, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")