Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Senate approves the introduction of the Environmental Act on January 1
Friesch Dagblad
March 15, 2023 Wednesday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 407 words
Body


The Hague The Senate has agreed that the Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1 next year. This puts an end to the long drawn-out process of the law.
In the roll call vote, 41 senators were in favor and 29 against. The Nanninga faction (a split from Forum for Democracy, now members of JA21) helped the coalition gain a majority. Left-wing parties in particular were against: they are concerned about the soundness and feasibility of the law.
The law was already passed by the Senate in 2016. It would be introduced in 2018. But the introduction was postponed several times. The complexity of the law, the corona crisis and IT problems, among other things, stood in the way of its introduction.
The Environmental Act bundles 26 laws and more than a hundred rules for spatial planning, making it easier to obtain a building permit, for example. This must be done via a digital counter. For a long time it was questionable whether this system was stable and/or safe enough.
Responsible
But provinces, municipalities and water boards, which have to work with the system, consider the introduction as of January 1 responsible. Earlier this year, they supported this proposal from Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning) and urged them to quickly provide clarity to politicians. According to him, governments and the business community can now definitively adjust their organization and work processes to provide the most adequate possible service to the business community and construction consumers.
Not stable
It was previously intended that the law would come into effect last New Year, but the Senate did not agree to this last year. The computer system required by the law was not secure or stable enough for a long time. The ICT Assessment Advisory Board concluded that there were still 'significant limitations' in the so-called Digital System Environment Act (DSO). For example, major problems could arise with the granting of building permits if the DSO does not work properly.
The Council of State recently expressed concern about the DSO. The council fears that the system has not been tested enough for user-friendliness and accessibility. The parties that voted against are also afraid that the law will lead to problems. The Party for the Animals speaks of an 'unworkable legislative bomb' that is 'no good from any side'.
The Council of State fears that the ICT system has not been sufficiently tested for user-friendliness and accessibility
Link to PDF

Load Date: March 15, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")