Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Smallingerland in red figures in 2023
Friesch Dagblad
June 15, 2021 Tuesday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 302 words
Body


There will be no new wishes in the coming years
Drachten The municipality will end next year on a positive note, but after that there will be a shortage. "We have stepped into a financially leaky boat and now have to close the gap," said councilor Felix van Beek.
High costs for carrying out government tasks such as the social domain and the Environmental Act and ambitious plans from the past, such as the new construction of the De Welle swimming pool, are causing financial difficulties. The framework memorandum concludes with a positive balance of almost six thousand euros for this year and just over one hundred thousand euros next year, but from 2023 the municipality will face an annual deficit of around 2.3 million euros.
Last year, Smallingerland's budget was approved in the nick of time. At the time, the council did not agree with the budget proposed by the council due to various cutbacks, but the council's plans did not receive approval from the province. Due to a windfall in green management and the deletion of a fund for the preparation of the Environmental Act, the budget was still approved. The municipality will not be able to avoid this preparation this time.
No wish lists
The current situation does not allow for a wish list for new policy. The council has identified a number of high-priority matters for which money must be provided, such as €300,000 for closing the deficit at Carins. This is the executor of the Wmo for Smallingerland. In addition, there are bridges and roads that are awaiting renovation.
There is currently no money for a number of points of attention mentioned earlier, such as extra money for the Frisian language policy and the control of the oak processionary caterpillar. The municipality wants to spread major cost items such as De Welle over a longer period. The council will discuss the framework memorandum on June 29.

Load Date: June 14, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")