Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Highway as your nearest neighbor; Living on the roadside, here and there in the country new housing estates are being built next to highways. It is an eternal divide in our crowded country: we all want to speed along the highway at 130 kilometers per hour, but we like to drive past my house at a snail's pace! “Three decibels more is twice as much noise!”
Leidsch Dagblad
January 30, 2016 Saturday


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: APPENDIX; Page LRV002
Length: 1221 words
Body


 Living on the roadside, here and there in the country new housing estates are being built next to highways. It is an eternal divide in our crowded country: we all want to speed along the highway at 130 kilometers per hour, but we like to drive past my house at a snail's pace! “Three decibels more is twice as much noise!”
It is tough for the three neighbors of the Kastanjehof district in Maassluis. “We have been working in vain for 27 years to raise the noise barrier in our backyard, but the new Wilgenrijk residential area, which is being built next to us, will have a noise barrier ten meters high. Ten meters!”
Their friendly courtyard of white-lilac blocks is only separated from the A20 by a field and a noise barrier. “If the wind is wrong, we cannot hear each other in the garden. And we can completely forget about sleeping with the windows open.” The highway traffic whizzes past in a hypnotic, monotonous hum. “Hundreds of people are affected by this. The noise barrier, originally three meters high plus a wooden structure of one meter, is much too low and has also sagged. Strangely enough, we never find out exactly what it costs to raise that hundred-meter-long embankment.”Miranda Post of Rijkswaterstaat gives a rough indicative price. “Due to variable factors such as visual aspects, location and materials, an average is not easy to give. But a 'standard' screen of 4 to 6 meters high costs on average between 5,400 and 6,800 euros per meter, excluding VAT. For a kilometer of screen you are talking about 5.4 to 6.8 million.”
Beautiful place
With all due respect, who is going to live on the highway? On the roof terrace, Cees Spaanderman, Gijs van Eijsden and Harry Kapteijn explain their starting situation. “It is a beautiful place in the Randstad, close to the beach, nice and central.” “When construction took place here, the road was still quite sheltered and the standard for noise pollution was a maximum of 59 decibels. Well, in 1989 it was possible to deviate from the standard, and the province allowed it to be up to 65 decibels.” “And,” Cees Spaanderman notes, “six decibels does not seem like much, but three decibels extra sounds like twice as much noise, six more is three times as bad.”Harry Kapteijn: “And, despite the construction of the A4, which should relieve the burden here, traffic on the A20 has increased from 25,000 vehicles per day to 35,000 to 40,000. Then there are also heavy trucks from the Westland and the ports.” Gijs van Eijsden: “In addition, the maximum speed has been increased from 100 to 130 kilometers per hour. As a driver I find this a real blessing, but as a neighbor on the side of the road I don't! Soot on our white houses. Cleaning, cleaning, cleaning!” The neighbors appreciate Wilgenrijk. “It will be a beautiful neighborhood, with waters and pollard willows. The high noise barrier is paid for by the developer. We have been campaigning for an increase in 'our' embankment since 1989, and we have challenged this - in vain - until the Supreme Court.” Through Sjoerd van Andel, the municipality has announced that they are doing everything they can: "Also because the new Blankenburg tunnel will cause extra noise pollution."
Increase
Living on the roadside, it is not possible to determine exactly how many Dutch people are affected. Dr. David Hamers, senior urban area researcher at the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency: "In total, the number of people living near the highway increased by 317,000 in the period 2000-2010, which equates to the construction of more than 144,000 homes. The figures concern locations within two kilometers of the highway entrance, but that could also be right behind the noise barrier." "Unfortunately, there are no more current figures, but they are not outdated, because little has changed since the start of the crisis. During the crisis, projects were mainly completed. Until 2010, housing construction quite close to the highway was a major grower, such as the Vinex locations Leidsche Rijn near Utrecht and Ypenburg near The Hague. The phenomenon now appears to be on the decline. The city center is popular, young families who previously moved away are now continuing to live there.” Research conducted some time ago showed that having the roadside as a neighbor equates to smoking seventeen cigarettes a day. “For new construction, the health standards can be roughly divided into noise pollution and air quality, the latter mainly concerns nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter. As far as noise is concerned, the upper limit is 65 decibels and this is measured on the facade, i.e. the skin of the house. Still quite a lot of noise, more comfortable is 50 decibels. But that is expensive because it means higher noise barriers.” “If the highway is already there, the house builder has to adapt, and if a highway is being built, then it is Rijkswaterstaat's turn,” says David Hamers. “Sound is a national standard. With air quality - nitrogen oxides and particulate matter - we must comply with European standards. The matter is complicated, but from 2018 various rules will be included in one Environmental Act.”
Shell of offices
'Deaf' house facades have been around for some time now, without elements that can be opened. “In addition, the residential area is often surrounded by a shell of offices or car brand display windows, which acts as a noise barrier. The standards are lower for temporary residential environments such as offices and schools.” The GGD is about the health of the population. But Natascha Evers of the GGD Rotterdam-Rijnmond says that the municipality is not obliged to ask them for advice and to let their advice be decisive. While all motorists grumble wholeheartedly about a maximum speed of 100 kilometers per hour on a six-lane highway, this does not apply to the part where they live. “Yes, to what extent is the person who moves next to the disco and then complains about noise entitled to compensation? Should the home buyer take noise and air pollution for granted and not complain?”, also asks Prof. Dr. Erik Verhoef, a spatial economist at the VU in Amsterdam. And we don't even have that much choice. “Seen from the air, the Netherlands is the most raked part of Europe, especially in the Randstad. There is not much unused public space left.”
Chicken and egg issue
It's a chicken and egg issue. “Building next to the ring means that it is easily accessible by car, through all exits. This is expensive land, which increases density and activity. The extra traffic makes it more attractive to build extra road capacity... And even though the number of bicycle owners is growing steadily, there is no incentive to leave the car at home and take the express bus or tram." "Why on earth do people Want to live next to the highway? Then you touch on what I sometimes ask students during the first lecture: which city do you come from and how did it originate. Clustering has agglomeration benefits. Industry with industry, knowledge with knowledge, and sometimes mixed, then you strengthen each other.” Verhoef refers to 'The tragedy of the commons', the theory of the American ecologist Garatt Hardin (1968). “Man is apt to undermine and spoil common property. Fishing the seas empty, or air pollution from car traffic. And therein lies the tragedy. We all want clean air. And we prefer to see all our neighbors cycling, so that we can get into the car ourselves.”
'Three decibels more is twice as much noise'

Load Date: January 29, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")