Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Does the Safety Region talk about a 14.5 or 6.4 percent price increase in a letter to municipal councils?
Friesch Dagblad
November 24, 2022 Thursday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 357 words
Byline: Iris Witzenburg
Highlight: Leeuwarden '14.5 percent' seemed to be the most used words on Wednesday in the safety committee of the Fryslân Safety Region. Yet in principle the municipal contribution to the Safety Region will increase by 'only' 6.4 percent in 2024.
Body


 in May
good and transparent explanation of this matter
Jeroen Gebben
This is due to inflation and energy costs, but also due to broken radios, for example. “The walkie-talkies have actually already been written off this year. We are already seeing too many disruptions," said director of the Fryslân Safety Region Wim Kleinhuis. The introduction of the Environmental Act, although postponed again, and investments in health policy for Frisian youth will probably cost more money.
What dominated the discussion, however, was part of the cost increase: a certain 14.5 percent. This is the new indexation for material costs in 2024, calculated on the basis of inflation (consumer price index) in September 2022. The causes stated for this increase are 'global economic developments, scarcity of raw materials and personnel, environmental measures and of course the war in Ukraine. ', as stated in a framework letter.
Kleinhuis provided clarification on those words. "We have to catch up as a Safety Region because we have indexed less." Municipalities have previously included the price increases in their costs, says Kleinhuis.
Do not send to the council
A number of mayors thought it unwise to send the framework letter to municipalities in this way because the percentage would not be sellable to the councils. Shouldn't the 14.5 percent even be left out, some wondered. "This is causing a lot of commotion in municipal councils and it concerns 2024. Wouldn't you wait until there is more certainty about the situation in 2024 and keep the municipal fund for now?" said Tjeerd van der Zwan, mayor of Heerenveen.
But others, including mayor Jeroen Gebben of Tytsjerksteradiel, requested that the letter be sent. Gebben assured those present that: "The 14.5 prosint is just 14.5 prosint, it is 6.4 prosint. May we discuss this matter in a good and transparent manner. It is never there, there it is every once in a while."
Financial advisors will still consider the framework letter on December 5. In the meantime, the mayors' considerations are being taken into account.
Link to PDF

Load Date: November 23, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")