Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The city council now really wants to improve participation
Leidsch Dagblad
November 2, 2023 Thursday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 4
Length: 470 words
Byline: Loman Leefmans
Body


To lead
Participation and consultation is and remains a concern for the Leiden city council. It is not uncommon for residents and neighborhood organizations to be diametrically opposed to the municipality of Leiden when it comes to, for example, construction projects, catering policy or traffic measures. That needs to change, says PvdA councilor Abdelhaq Jermoumi, who has now come up with a new set of rules. "Just informing those involved is no longer possible."
Jermoumi calls his Guide to Cooperation in the City a toolbox to improve voice and participation. It is not only about the proposals previously made by Platform 31, but the upcoming Environmental Act also forces municipalities to inform their residents properly, with an open mind, and without secrets.
Rules of the game
And from now on it also gives Leiden residents room for their own input. "Even then there will not be support for everything," the councilor warns. "But everyone has adhered to the rules of the game, including our civil servants and project developers."
There are plenty of examples of where things went wrong in the recent past. At almost every construction project that was reviewed, angry local residents and neighborhood organizations showed up at the municipality's doorstep. After which both parties spent a lot of money and time on legal support and the relationship became bitter.
According to Jermoumi, mutual respect is one of the corollaries that desperately needs improvement, as well as a level playing field in terms of (pre)information. “We are also learning.”
What Jermoumi also hopes to prevent with his new design is that the same local residents always show up for participation projects. He also wants to specifically target Leiden residents who have often been absent in the recent past, such as students, fellow citizens with a migration background, young people, entrepreneurs and expats. “Because they are also part of the city.
Satisfied
The new plans for consultation and participation can be viewed until December 21 at Leiden.nl/inspraak and all Leiden residents can respond to them. At the same time, Jermoumi is not only 'happy and proud' that his toolbox filled with good intentions is being opened, but that there are now examples that already look like a strong improvement. For example, setting up the website doemee.nl. "And I understand that the way in which residents of the Meerburg district are involved in the changes in their neighborhood is to everyone's satisfaction."
Early next year, the city council will approve Jermoumi's new proposal on participation in Leiden. And those 39 representatives remain the final destination in all consultation cases. “The city council has the final say.”
Simply informing those involved is no longer possible from now on
Abdelhaq Jermoumi (PvdA)
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 1, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")