Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Tribal thinking and democracy do not tolerate each other
Friesch Dagblad
May 13, 2023 Saturday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 618 words
Byline: Sytze Faber
Body


Own resistance dead first!' That was Caroline van der Plas' argument for demonstratively staying away from the reception of Ukrainian President Zelensky on May 4. An expression of tribal thinking. In tribal thinking, one's own interest group/tribe is given priority over everything and everyone.
If this thinking is limited to the BBB and the (ultra) right, it is manageable. Short-sightedness, which a democracy must be able to cope with. It is a different story if the cabinet and government coalition also become infected with it. Then the public interest dies. That is happening now.
It is characteristic of tribal thinking that it burys its head in the sand for as long as possible for unpleasant facts. Even when democracy and humanity are at stake. It is pretty much the trademark of the Rutte III and IV cabinets. This often results in a series of setbacks.
Due to extensive indecision, the asylum case (Ter Apel) degenerated into an endless, merciless funeral march, which, among other things, will forever deprive many minors of a humane future.
If possible, politicians ignored the upside-down flags ("Your democracy is not ours!") and violent intimidation by farmers' groups, who shamelessly compared their fate to that of the victims of the Holocaust.
Wishful thinking
People have been avoiding the hot mess of the nitrogen dossier for four years. There is no end in sight yet. Last week it was announced that the cabinet wants to introduce the new Environmental Act with effect from January 1, 2024. This means, among other things, that inevitable expropriations of agricultural land will not take two years, as now, but four years! This again stands in the way of a quick solution to the nitrogen problem. In the cabinet, one hand/tribe does not seem to know what the other is doing.
For years, expert papers have warned that farmers and tribal politicians grossly overestimate what innovations in livestock sheds can contribute to nitrogen reduction. The day before yesterday they were proven right. Research by Wageningen University shows that this contribution is indeed much lower than agricultural organizations and Minister Adema et al. predict.
It has also been known for four years that the current water policy is failing without tightening the guidelines. Once again, the cabinet and government coalition stood by and watched it. The Council for the Environment pointed out last Thursday that our country is heading for a disaster in terms of water quality and quantity. The goals agreed in a European context for 2027 are far from being achieved.
Corona
During corona times, sixty percent of voters had confidence in The Hague's politics, now that is less than thirty percent. That is understandable. Voters want to be governed. They accept unpleasant measures as long as it is explained in a timely and clear manner why they are necessary. But the government and coalition always shy away from such a story. The bill was presented at the March 15 elections. The government coalition received a huge boost and the BBB had the largest group in all provinces and in the Senate.
Despite this landslide, the cabinet and coalition parties want to continue to 'govern' until the next regular parliamentary elections in the spring of 2025. Fear of early elections, also a fruit of tribal thinking, plays a decisive role in this. The difference with Caroline van der Plas on this point is unfortunately smaller than often thought.
What could possibly not be in the electoral bag for those elections in 2025? Think and shudder. Ninety years ago, a democracy can very well help itself to the barbies.
Respond?fabersyma@gmail.com
Link to PDF

Load Date: May 12, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")