Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Nitrogen is no longer a problem for Valkenhorst; delay 'We need time'
Leidsch Dagblad
December 22, 2021 Wednesday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 13
Length: 427 words
Byline: Hielke Biemond
Body


delay 'We need time'
At the last minute, councilor Gerard Mostert received the indispensable nitrogen contracts to determine the zoning plan for the new village of Valkenhorst.
Katwijk
It is unclear whether this will be in time to present the thick book to the Katwijk municipal council before Christmas, and thus prevent further delays to the mega construction project. Mostert will update the council members about this in a closed meeting on Thursday evening.
"I cannot yet say anything about whether we will offer the zoning plan and if so, under what conditions," his spokeswoman said on Tuesday. “That is confidential.”
After a year and a half of negotiations, project developer BPD has sold the emission rights of two old Valkenburg farms and a greenhouse horticulture company to the Central Government Real Estate Agency, the land owner at the former Valkenburg air base.
Under great pressure from the Katwijk municipal council, the provincial council and the outgoing cabinet, the parties reached an agreement at the beginning of this month. With these rights, the councilor wants to largely compensate for the nitrogen emissions of the residents of the new village, or at least comply with the applicable rules for this.
Contracts
 However, the late breakthrough in the negotiations was not enough to close the zoning plan for all 5,600 homes in terms of nitrogen. We were waiting for the associated contracts, which, much to the chagrin of the councilor, only arrived at the town hall this week.
"They are very late with this," sighs Mostert's spokeswoman. “And of course we cannot attach those contracts to the zoning plan unnoticed. We have to do a legal test first. It takes time.''
There is no such time. Mostert wants to have the zoning plan adopted by the municipal council before the elections in March, to avoid significant delays. Otherwise, he predicts, the new municipal council will need months to read up on it, and the new Environmental Act in July will probably change the rules of the game.
Dune conservation
 If the councilor wins that race against time, he will still have a long way to go. The Duinconservation Foundation will most likely challenge the zoning plan all the way to the Council of State. Foreman Maarten Langbroek predicts that it will not last there, because according to him, Mostert's 'paper nitrogen solution' will in practice lead to an even heavier burden on the protected dune areas.
We have to do a legal test first. It takes time
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 21, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")