Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Stop the numbing of the Netherlands
Leidsch Dagblad
March 14, 2020 Saturday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2020 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: PLUS; Page 008
Length: 1079 words
Body


  Square gigantic buildings increasingly 'decorate' the landscape. According to ex-planologist Paul Veldhuis, spatial planning in the Netherlands is now at the mercy of the gods. The central government must intervene, he believes.
Recent publications in this newspaper and other media reveal the concerns that exist about Dutch spatial planning. This is not just about the gray boxes that arise here and there along motorways or the housing construction challenge, but especially about the spatial course that the Netherlands must take in the (near) future.
The gods
It is good that the importance of spatial planning is being mentioned again. Since the government turned away from spatial planning with the entry into force of the new law in July 2008, spatial planning has been handed over to the gods. Those gods – provinces and municipalities – seem to have lost their way in spatial planning over the years. In 2008, the government reduced spatial planning to 13 national interests. Although these are legally guaranteed in the 'General Spatial Planning Rules Decree', they are partly formulated in a rather abstract manner. The government is therefore too often dependent on the policies of provinces and municipalities. The government regulates some interests itself, such as Schiphol and the electricity supply; others, such as Nature Network Netherlands, cultural-historical heritage and external safety, are left to local authorities to implement. The outcome is often uncertain. This is evident from a publication in NRC of February 10, 2020.
environmental code
In 2021, all kinds of laws, regulations and ordinances regarding the physical environment will be merged into the Environmental Act and the associated provincial and municipal environmental visions, ordinances and permit systems. All this with the ambitious goal of achieving one comprehensive and coherent environmental policy and, above all, simplified permitting via a single (digital) counter. Time will tell whether this will work. Contrary to what many believe, the Environmental Act does not solve the problem of failing spatial planning. As they say, 'good spatial planning' requires more than a number of laws stapled together. It is time for the government to quickly come to its senses and take over in spatial planning. This means an activist policy instead of more or less passive monitoring of the realization and safeguarding of national spatial interests in zoning plans. There is every reason for this: the growing housing need/housing shortage, mobility problems, the energy transition, the establishment of businesses and logistics, restructuring and sustainability of the agricultural sector, climate adaptation, natural construction and ensuring a robust national network of care homes and hospitals. First and foremost, it is necessary for the government to put a realistic national spatial vision on paper. This brings together all relevant spatial developments in a coherent manner. Not just a vision with beautiful prospects and objectives, but above all a package of coherent measures and a concrete implementation program with specific targets in terms of time, place and financing. In this context, there is much to be said for reviving the 'Key Planning Decision'. Although past successes do not guarantee the future, the 'old' spatial planning offers even more interesting instruments: distribution of spatial activities (deconcentration), growth centers and red contours.
Randstad
Distribution of spatial activities: current policy is largely Randstad-oriented. Given the current problems, this is right. However, this spatial policy cannot be continued for many years. It leads to a further increase in the imbalance between Randstad and the more distant regions, resulting in increasing pressure and congestion in many social areas - not only with regard to mobility - in the Randstad and beyond. With a view to the quality of life in large and small cities, the distribution of spatial activities is becoming more urgent. So a sustainable development. Due to the rising water in the coming decades, it is wise not to use all spatial maps on the low-lying Randstad. That is also a form of sustainability. The distribution of spatial activities can partly be achieved through the designation of growth centres. In the 1990s, growth centers served to meet the housing needs of the central cities, especially the Randstad. Once again, the government could designate new growth centers and/or former growth centers for living and working. The new growth centers in particular should be developed at a greater distance from the Randstad. A robust mobility network, with an emphasis on public transport, is an essential and absolute precondition for both spatial developments. This must be met first. That is the most important lesson from the past. The investment fund that the government had or still has in mind(?) is a welcome financial basis for this.
 In the coming years, spatial planning must again become the guiding principle for governments in decision-making and action, which involves physical-spatial developments. Spatial planning at national level is based on four pillars: 1. A realistic and implementable spatial vision or plan; 2. simple, clear and uniform rules; 3. strong financing in the form of an investment fund and a rural area fund and 4. a clear division of tasks between the three authorities: centrally what must be done and decentrally what is possible: the province as guardian of the rural area; the municipalities as developers within the contours of the urban area. The Netherlands not only needs a Minister of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment, but also a Sixth Spatial Planning Memorandum. Paul Veldhuis
 Control over appearance In order to tackle the growing housing shortage, mobility problems, energy transition and climate problems, the central government must again take control over the appearance of the Netherlands. This is what Paul Veldhuis, retired planner for the province of North Holland, says.

Load Date: March 14, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")