Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Cancel the Rijnhaven-Oost plan
Leidsch Dagblad
September 2, 2017 Saturday
Rhine and Veen


Copyright 2017 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 001
Length: 331 words
Body


  Council of State honors objections from animal feed company and car company
Alphen aan den Rijn The new 'environmental plan' that should enable the development of Rijnhaven-Oost in Alphen aan den Rijn is not satisfactory. The Council of State orders the municipality to adjust the plan.
Two companies in the port area have successfully appealed against the environmental plan, which is intended as the successor to the zoning plan. Their objections have been upheld by the Council of State. The intended environmental plan is a precursor to the Environmental Act that will come into effect after July 1, 2019. Rijnhaven-Oost has been designated by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment as a pilot project to test the new rules. An animal feed company fears the arrival of homes in the Rijnhaven area, which so far only houses companies. The mixing of functions intended by the municipality may hinder the animal feed company in its actions. For example, the company fears that it will no longer be able to meet odor and noise standards in the future. The company's planned expansion may also be in jeopardy. The court finds that the municipality pays too little attention to the interests of the animal feed company and that the environmental plan has not been drawn up with the 'required care'. A car company has lodged an objection because the company does not appear at all in the environmental plan. In the Van Foreestlaan sub-area, only houses and shops are allowed, as well as 'operating a business'. It is unclear whether there will still be room for all the activities of a car company. The Council of State also finds these objections justified. The municipality of Alphen is not concerned about the necessary adjustment: "We are repairing the Rijnhaven environmental plan and will bring it into procedure this year. This hardly causes any delay. Because the amended environmental plan no longer needs to be viewed as a draft, it can be submitted directly to the council after council consideration."

Load Date: September 1, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")