Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Stop housing construction; New calculation method for noise makes areas around airports 'unliveable'
Leidsch Dagblad
June 22, 2020 Monday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 1
Length: 375 words
Byline: Frans van den Berg
Body


New calculation method for noise makes areas around airports 'unliveable'
Haarlem
Due to the construction plans for hundreds of thousands of homes in North and South Holland, a line may be drawn when new stricter noise regulations come into effect. “This has disastrous consequences. In fact, this area is going into lockdown."
North Holland deputy Jeroen Olthof wrote this in an urgent letter to Minister Kajsa Ollongren. Olthof does this as chairman of the Schiphol Administrative Directorate (BRS), on behalf of the provinces of North and South Holland, Utrecht and Flevoland and 56 municipalities in the wider area around Schiphol.
After PFAS and nitrogen, noise now threatens to become a problem for construction. It is known that the airport causes noise pollution and therefore limits housing development plans. But panic has struck now that the minister has come up with a draft for including sound in the new Environmental Act.
What stands out: aviation noise counts much more heavily than before. In addition, the new calculation method adds up all noise sources, i.e. from industry, trains, shipping, (car) traffic and aviation. "Regardless of the local circumstances, this means that the entire region is considered unliveable in advance. This means that this area will de facto be closed."
If this proposal becomes law, municipalities will no longer be able to issue permits for most housing plans. All housing construction plans in the Amsterdam Metropolitan Area are thus jeopardized. So from Haarlem to Hilversum and from Haarlemmermeer to Purmerend, with a global plan for 380,000 homes. But the IJmond, Alkmaar and Almere will also have to deal with this, just like the Bulb Region and the Leiden region. "This problem will also apply around other airports. Think of Den Helder, Hilversum, but also Rotterdam and Eindhoven," adds a spokesperson for the province. "The BRS wants to sit down with the government to resolve this together."
Matt Poelmans, residents' representative in the Schiphol consultation, turns the problem around. “Because air traffic is finally being added, a much more negative picture is rightly emerging. This does not mean less housing construction, but rather that we must focus even more on reducing aviation nuisance."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 21, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")