Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Stricter standards do not affect Schiphol but housing construction
de Volkskrant
July 6, 2020 Monday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 8
Length: 799 words
Byline: MARCEL VAN LIESHOUT
Body


Many housing projects in municipalities under the Schiphol flight paths are in danger of becoming impossible to implement. New standards for noise pollution and quality of life, by Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Housing), mean that the construction of tens of thousands of homes in the Schiphol region is encountering major restrictions.

Ollongren has laid down the standards in the recently published Noise Supplementary Regulations to the Environmental Act. There are now objections from municipalities and provinces, with North Holland in the lead, against this recent arrangement. The previously revealed Aviation Memorandum from Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen (Aviation) is also coming under heavy fire. The core of the criticism: the largest cause of noise pollution, aviation, is not being hindered while the region is virtually 'locked down'.
Unlivable
"We are actually labeled as a kind of unliveable area," says councilor Robert van Rijn (Housing, VVD) of Aalsmeer, a municipality that has been complaining for years about increasing nuisance from Schiphol and its consequences for housing construction. According to Van Rijn, construction plans for four thousand homes are now at risk. 'Project developers are threatening to withdraw.'

Based on Ollongren's new scheme, the quality of life in almost all of Aalsmeer as a result of noise pollution is characterized as 'poor' to 'very poor'. Van Rijn's fellow councilor Bart Kabout (Schiphol, CDA): 'We are getting the bill for a problem caused by Schiphol.' Aalsmeer has been insisting for some time that Schiphol should take a stand, while Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen wants to allow growth in air traffic.

The growth municipality of Haarlemmermeer has also sounded the alarm. According to North Holland deputy Jeroen Olthof (Schiphol, PvdA), the cabinet is sending conflicting messages: Schiphol can continue to grow, the housing shortage must be tackled, but regulations make housing construction more difficult. In a letter to Minister Ollongren, Olthof points out that 368 thousand homes are planned in the Amsterdam Metropolitan Area alone.

Olthof wrote that letter as chairman of the BRS, the directors' delegation in the Schiphol Environmental Council. In that council, which also includes residents of the airport, the aviation industry and the environmental movement, parties are finding it increasingly difficult to reach compromises. Directors want air traffic not to get in the way of other activities, local residents want to limit nuisance, and Schiphol wants to be able to continue to grow beyond the currently permitted 500,000 flights per year.

Now it becomes clear once again how difficult it is to reconcile all kinds of wishes. In the new Environmental Act (which will come into effect in 2022), the concept of 'liveability' is the key point when, for example, issuing building permits, and all kinds of environmental nuisance (noise, air pollution) are given more weight. Resident delegations within the Schiphol Environmental Council are happy with this.

In response to parliamentary questions, Minister Ollongren said last week that he would consult with municipalities and the province of North Holland. The objectionable Noise Supplementary Regulation is now available for consultation. Ollongren: 'What matters now is the elaboration of measurement and calculation rules.' The regulation sets standards for the accumulation of noise pollution, not just nuisance caused by air traffic. The World Health Organization WHO issued new guidelines in October 2018 to reduce harmful health effects. In large parts of the Netherlands, especially in the Schiphol region, these guidelines are not met.
Buttery soft
"It is of course good that our complaints about noise pollution from aviation are, as it were, officially recognized in Minister Ollongren's regulations," says Aalsmeer councilor Bart Kabout. 'But then you have to tackle the problem at the source. Schiphol is allowed to continue to grow quietly under all kinds of soft promises about nuisance reduction and we as municipalities can hardly do anything anymore. Go ahead and explain that.'

Councilor Robert van Rijn points out that approximately one third of the total Dutch housing construction for the next ten years is planned for the Randstad. The change in standards affects dozens of municipalities located in the area of ​​the so-called noise contours of Schiphol.

'You spend years trying to deliver customized solutions in consultation with the government: where can you still build and where can you not? Then you eventually reach an agreement and then the government tightens standards that take us completely by surprise and in fact undo all the work. In Aalsmeer it was already the case that housing was no longer possible for 71 percent of the territory, now we are going to 100 percent.'

View the original page: page 8

Graphic

 
A plane flies low over the houses near Schiphol.

Load Date: July 5, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")