Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Protect Tata from civilians or vice versa?; report Environmental Service in dialogue with Jan de Jong
Leidsch Dagblad
January 6, 2024 Saturday
City


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 6
Length: 765 words
Byline: Peter Schat
Body


report Environmental Service in dialogue with Jan de Jong
Does the Environmental Agency NZKG protect Tata Steel from the citizens, or the citizens from Tata Steel? The latter was evident from a conversation on Friday between director Loes de Maat of the environmental service and Jan de Jong, chairman of the Schapenduinen Foundation and critical follower of the factory.
Bloemendaal
Whose side is the government actually on, that of the industry or that of the citizen who suffers from pollution? According to Jan de Jong, the North Sea Canal Area Environmental Service (OD NZKG) has shifted and now pays more attention to the citizen. According to Loes de Maat, director of the relevant environmental service for almost three years, protecting the living environment has always been a priority. A long discussion took place between both parties on Friday morning about their opposing views, who allowed this newspaper to listen in as a 'fly on the wall'.
Jan de Jong is owner of multinational Nedamco and chairman of the Schapenduinen Foundation, named after the 40-hectare estate in the Zuid-Kennemerland National Park. He spends roughly fifty percent of his time on social causes and for the past five years he has been focusing on 'neighbor' Tata Steel, five kilometers away as the crow flies. He mentions an 'inflection point', the moment when the OD NZKG decided to no longer protect Tata Steel against the residents of the IJmond, but the residents against the company.
Food Safety
Loes de Maat disputes that there would have been such a point. "We are not called an environmental service for nothing, we protect the living environment and laws and regulations are our framework." These laws and regulations are also a limitation. "I find it special that companies use the best available techniques that are economically feasible to protect the environment. In food safety, for example, economics plays no role, but health is leading."
Peak emissions
To fundamentally better protect the health of people living near companies, different standards are needed than currently apply, she argues. "Not only in the IJmond, but throughout the Netherlands and we are putting this on the agenda with policymakers and politicians." For example, standards for peak emissions or accumulation of toxins, their accumulation over a longer period of time, are sorely missed.
She sent letters on this theme to The Hague as early as 2022. So long before the release of the RIVM report on how bad the health of the IJmonders is, which De Jong sees as a turning point. The moment it was determined that the lower life expectancy and the greater risk of cancer in certain postal code areas in the IJmond can be related to the presence of Tata Steel.
Opinions
De Jong wants to tempt the OD director to join forces against Tata. But that is not possible, according to De Maat. “The environmental service has an independent position. I am open to suggestions and thoughts, but on a factual basis. Images and opinions are fantastic, but only with the answer to the question of what we have specifically missed can we do anything."
De Jong believes that Tata will not have a long life in our country. "The fact that the parent company in India has not been able to find a buyer for the Dutch production facility for nine years says enough to me." De Maat agrees that staying within laws and regulations will be difficult for the complex in IJmuiden, even if parts are renewed . "The older installations remain standing around them, and laws and regulations are gradually becoming stricter, so that it will become increasingly difficult to comply with them."
Don Quixote
She expects that the Environmental Act, which came into force this year, also offers routes to closing business units earlier. "If we find that Tata does not meet certain standards, we give the company a reasonable period to resolve the matter. If this does not work, an enforcement process will start, with the ultimate consequence being withdrawal of the permit. Even if there is a legal risk involved, we may still do it. Of course not if the chance of success is zero. We are not Don Quichottes."
De Maat disputes that the environmental agency has insufficient resources to carry out inspections, as De Jong states. "There are sufficient finances, it is about the lack of experts available on the labor market." De Jong: "Money can buy everything." De Maat: “Maybe in your world, not in mine. After all, it is about taxpayers' money."
We are
 no Don Quichottes
Loes de Maat
director OD NZKG
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 5, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")