Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Teylingen agrees with a low-policy budget
Leidsch Dagblad
November 13, 2021 Saturday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 4
Length: 625 words
Byline: Roza van der Veer
Body


Teylingen
With only the PvdA and GroenLinks opposed, the budget for Teylingen was adopted on Thursday evening. Both parties were dissatisfied with the plans submitted for 2022. According to GroenLinks, Teylingen is not sufficiently ambitious, while the PvdA spoke about 'wrong choices'.
Teylingen's household budget closes with a small surplus of more than three thousand euros. That is a stroke of luck because Teylingen initially took into account a shortage of almost 6.5 tons. Thanks to an extra government benefit for youth care, the red figures could be converted into black. But that does not mean that the financial prospects for the coming years are very favorable. According to finance councilor Marlies Volten, the projected deficits will amount to three million euros in 2025.
Policy poor
Teylingen therefore has few new plans in the budget. However, 1.500,000 euros will be structurally allocated for the practice assistant for general practitioners for youth and 80,000 euros for the introduction of the new Environmental Act. Furthermore, the council leaves new plans to the next municipal council. There will be municipal elections in March 2022. "This budget has little policy, but let us maintain the positive balance for the next council period," Volten argued.
The council's position could count on understanding from the vast majority of the municipal council. Although the various parties still had their wish lists, there was broad support for the budget presented. Only the PvdA and GroenLinks voted against.
Energy poverty
Sandra Groenendal of the PvdA pointed out the danger of energy poverty, inequality, but also the fact that Teylingen is not very sustainable. “We are on the eve of an energy transition. Teylingen is lagging behind and the council is not talking about how we are going to catch up. In addition, the energy transition must be feasible and affordable, but for everyone."
"The same applies to the housing market, where too much is being built for the higher segment. Just impose sanctions if project developers build too few affordable houses. The council is making the wrong choices."
GroenLinks was also not satisfied and spoke of a lack of ambitions. “The urgency is great. We need to catch up in many areas," said Don Verhoeff.
The other factions did approve the budget. But they also put a wish list on the table for the coming council period. For example, D66 argued for less 'brick' in Voorhout and Sassenheim districts, but also in the new-build districts of Nieuw Boekhorst and Langeveld.
Library
The CDA advocated an expansion of respite care, more rental homes and attention in Nieuw Boekhorst for the elderly and young people. The Christian Democrats also made clear that they had no objection to the use of general reserves to balance the budget. "That money is for a library or a sports hall," said party leader Reny Wietsma.
Trilokaal also submitted some requests through Frans van Swieten. He advocated more work in Teylingen so that mobility can be reduced. He also wants the new neighborhoods to provide living space for (highly educated) young people. "We may also be able to motivate older tenants to move to apartments so that larger homes become available for families."
Dion Piket of the Piket Party complained that too little is being done to make municipal buildings more sustainable. “We still have steps to go,” he told the council.
The VVD believed that more money is structurally needed to become more sustainable. Monique de la Rie: “But we are not in favor of wind turbines and solar meadows. We really have to look carefully at what is possible in the landscape."
We really need to look carefully at what is possible in the landscape
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 13, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")