Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Future with fewer rules
Leidsch Dagblad
January 12, 2018 Friday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 007
Length: 698 words
Byline: Alieke Hoogenboom
Body


  Katwijk councilor about environmental vision: 'It will soon be easier to realize a plan'
Katwijk Fewer rules, no lengthy procedures and a flexible assessment of new plans. The environmental vision, a document describing the objectives and future of the municipality of Katwijk, should ensure this. “The ambition is to make it easier for residents and companies to get things done,” says Katwijk councilor Klaas Jan van der Bent. “A lot is possible now, but due to the complicated procedures it often takes a long time before an idea can be implemented.”
In other words: anyone who wants to implement a plan that deviates from the regulations needs a lot of patience and perseverance. Plans are assessed according to the rules of various policy documents, which creates a lot of bureaucracy. The environmental vision, an elaboration of the Environmental Act that will be introduced nationally in 2021, will replace all those separate memoranda. The document should also ensure that the official workload decreases. “As a municipality, we are moving much more towards process guidance, a completely different way of working,” van der Bent explains. Katwijk has tried to involve residents as much as possible in the development, including through meetings. "The involvement of those present was good, but we also noticed that it is difficult to get an entire community enthusiastic about drawing up a vision that is still quite abstract," the councilor must agree. "I expect interest to increase if we further develop the vision into plans that focus more on the immediate environment."
Motto
The integrated vision is based on the motto 'Katwijk is a vital partner in the region, but its individuality is retained'. "There are two things in that motto: what we have to offer the region and they have to offer us. We should not withdraw, but we also do not have to merge with Leiden." Four themes were then developed: strong coast, flourishing business, Katwijk centers, and healthy and attractive living environment. Katwijk wants, among other things, more (fast) cycling and walking routes, to improve bathing water quality, to put nature reserves on the map, to build homes, to improve access roads and to promote sports. More concrete 'environmental plans' are developed based on these four pillars, but not so detailed that there is no room for maneuver. An example is an Unmanned Valley, which will be built at the former Valkenburg naval air base. Van der Bent: "In such an area plan, for example, we can work out that the noise from drones must remain below 25 decibels and that there must be no nitrogen emissions. Then there are frameworks, but there is still a lot possible." This can also be addressed with sea yachts, which is described in the document as an option for strengthening Katwijk as a seaside resort. "As soon as we start drawing up quality frameworks for that area, it will become clear what kind of development is possible." It could therefore well be that space will now be created for old and complex plans that were previously unfeasible. The environmental vision is not set in stone. "It is not a final document. We do not say: this is what Katwijk should look like in ten years' time. The vision is more of a measuring instrument that shows where development is possible.'' In the further elaboration, the quality of an area is described and it is determined what - for example the environment, sustainability, traffic, housing, nature, parking, tourism - in a certain core is extra important. "On this basis you can let go of other matters, so that you do not continue to discuss whether a gutter can have a certain height. For example, a plan that scores well on nature, but not on parking standards, can still go ahead because it fits well in the area. This way we can make broader, more integrated assessments." Ultimately, Katwijk should also have a digital system where residents and companies can test for themselves whether an idea is feasible in a certain area before submitting a plan. The municipal council will give its opinion on the environmental vision on Thursday.

Load Date: January 11, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")