Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Noordwijk's vision for the future provokes a new citizens' initiative
Leidsch Dagblad
April 24, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: Region
Length: 295 words
Byline: Peter Van Der Hulst
Body


by Peter van der Hulst
Noordwijk Platform Initiative Noordwijk (PIN) submitted another citizens' initiative to the municipality of Noordwijk yesterday morning. PIN director Hans Stol presented Mayor Jan Rijpstra with a list of 123 signatories who believe that drawing up a future document is not necessary at this time.
        PIN believes that Noordwijk is ahead of the curve with this so-called environmental vision for the year 2030. "It is possible that a new 'Environmental Act' will be adopted in due course. This will only come into effect in 2018. Only then is a new environmental vision necessary," PIN writes in an explanation. The platform therefore wonders whether the new document is already necessary and whether it would not be better to start the process later, if that proves to be necessary.
        PIN points out that a vision for the future for the year 2025 has already been drawn up in the past. As a result, a structural vision and various sub-notes have also been drawn up. The platform estimates the costs involved at more than one million euros. Instead of a new plan, according to the initiators, the emphasis should be on implementing existing plans.
        Previously, the city council dealt with a citizens' initiative from the same group in which politicians were urged to make an urgent decision on the new construction plans of Hotel van Oranje. This caused a great commotion because the council had adjusted the text proposed by the initiators without permission. A mistake that was later admitted before an objection committee. Reason for Noordwijk to re-examine the rules for handling a citizens' initiative. The existing regulations still apply to the request regarding the environmental vision.

Load Date: April 24, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")