Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Tradition with October 3
Leidsch Dagblad
June 21, 2023 Wednesday
City


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 11
Length: 906 words
Body


For many years now, the Choral Music on October 3 has been at the feet of Mayor Van der Werff in the park named after him.
In the attached photo you see my grandfather and grandmother in the early fifties, together with aunt Bep and three of their grandchildren (yes, that young man is me) enjoying the chorale music.
Their grandchildren, and their children and grandchildren, still do that. In the same way. With a boat. That's what I call tradition and it should remain that way.
But yes, the grass doesn't grow very well there. A tiny piece of greenery in the middle of a busy city and under large trees. What do you want. Everything has been tried, but it does not produce a beautiful lawn.
Now it has been decided to give the grass a year of rest. No signs 'forbidden to enter the grass', because that doesn't help. No, fences around it.
But anyone who has a garden in a city with a lawn that is often walked on knows that it is a difficult process. You can be happy if your field turns green with moss and clover. Nature is difficult to force.
But, dear community and good 3 October Association, let's try. Let's leave the grass alone for a year (all 365 days). And let's assume the miracle happens and the grass grows afterwards. So that the park can be returned to the citizens and Mayor van der Werff can again fully enjoy the tribute paid to him in 2024 (the four hundred and fiftieth anniversary of Leiden's Relief).
And if the grass isn't that green (which would be a shame) then it doesn't matter. It cannot be that from now on we are all doing our best at the Garenmarkt and Van der Werff is standing around the corner moping in his little park.
So not this year. But next year, and all the years that follow, we will all go to the Van der Werff Park again.
Henk Meershoek
Alphen a/d Rijn
Keti Koti
I read with interest the article about Keti Koti in the LD of June 17.
It is also interesting that Mayor Lenferink, although a historian, now has a different view of history as we have always seen it.
The mayor's insight, so many years later, changes not only his view of history, but of many other people.
Recognizing past abuses also provides more awareness in the present.
After all, as humans we have and have had the tendency to look away from wrongdoing and/or sweep it under the rug. Not only from history, but also in our daily lives.
Transgressive behavior seems to be the order of the day.
It is actually a gain if it is recognized that we may have considered this 'normal' in the past, but that it is no longer acceptable.
It is necessary that there are people who recognize this, but also that it becomes 'normal' to expose and correct things that are wrong.
This takes courage. Starting with our leaders.
Thank you Mayor Lenferink and Chairman Ottow.
Cees Ahsmann
To lead
Puzzle piece
In the context of the new environmental law, the municipality held a theme session on participation on Tuesday evening. There I heard from an insider that architecture is not really alive at the top of Leiden's politics. This meant that an important piece of the puzzle from the consultation on our area fell into place for us: Why is the De Geus construction project - opposite the entrance to Leiden Central railway station - not a landmark (an architecturally striking building that gives an area an image and identity? gives) become?
Jan Tolsma, chairman of the Leiden Station Area District Association
Solar panels
Farmers are very energy conscious and have therefore had large quantities of solar panels installed on many stable roofs.
Many companies have also filled their roofs with solar panels.
When I see the list of recently broken out major fires - such as many stable fires, the caravan park in Reeuwijk, the industrial estate in Ter Aar, etc., I begin to suspect that there could be a causal relationship between the large quantities of solar panels and the spontaneous fires.
If this is correct, the pleurisy will break out.
E.G.Pot
CNV
Piet Fortuin, the chairman of the CNV, stands up for his members: 'Let all employees share in the company's profits' (LD 13/6).
Then you think: but they do that, right? Where else are wages paid? But that's not how Fortuin means it, he wants something extra for his members, an annual payment of about 2,000 euros, from a profit-sharing scheme. As they often have abroad.
The CNV has good intentions for some of its members: the active ones, those who are still working. The CNV also has post-active members, the pensioners. Members who, while still working, were promised that they would receive a welfare-related or at least value-based pension and who from 2009 to 2022 had to make do with the same nominal pension amount year after year and received nothing or virtually nothing from indexation.
Fortuin has come up with something different for these members: from now on they will receive a 'casino pension': Maybe something more or less every year.
Pensioners are a kind of second-class members in the trade union movement (the FNV is no different). Whether they can still make ends meet with the runaway prices is their problem.
It is good that Henk Krol has started this action to bring those pension cuts to court.
Klaas Maas
Voorschoten
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")