Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dried out Veluwe longs for swampy swamps
de Volkskrant
July 28, 2020 Tuesday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 18, 19
Length: 1754 words
Byline: JORIS TIELEMAN
Highlight: Due to the prolonged drought, the Veluwe is withering away. The water board tries to solve the worst problems with meandering streams and water-reducing plants. But radical measures are needed: new swamps. 'Pumping endlessly is not possible.' The farmers think very differently about this.
Body


Every step releases a small cloud of dust from the forest path. The black soil at the bottom of the Voorstondensebeek is firm and dry. As area manager Dennis Dorman of the Vallei & Veluwe water board jumps into the dry stream, he says: 'In a normal year the water would now be up to my knees.'

Since the warm, dry summer of 2018, the Veluwe has been experiencing an increasing water shortage. While the low-lying north and west of the Netherlands are recovering quickly, this does not apply to the high sandy soils in Drenthe, Brabant and Overijssel, nor to the Veluwe. Rare fish such as the brook lamprey and the bullhead are threatened with extinction, and plants such as the water crowfish are dying.

February seemed to save the day with some heavy downpours. But just when everything started to come out again and the farmers had planted, things changed again: 2020 is the third year in a row that there has been an exceptional drought in the Netherlands. Warm, dry and a strong easterly wind that sweeps across the country like a giant hairdryer. The precipitation deficit - the difference between precipitation and evaporation - has been breaking date records all spring.

The heavy showers in June and July made the top layer of the soil wet again and replenished the groundwater somewhat. But a lot of water evaporates quickly on the warm, dry days between showers.

It is the new normal, says dike manager Tanja Klip-Martin of the Vallei & Veluwe water board, as she walks through the Voorstondense forest near Zutphen in June: long periods of drought, alternating with heavy showers. "We have to get used to it."

What this 'getting used to' consists of is well known: in the past, draining water was the whole trick. Now water boards, nature managers and farmers must learn to deal with the alternation of drought and downpours. And especially when it comes to structural solutions, interests quickly collide: farmers want dry soil, while nature managers want more marshy land. In short, water has become political.

At a local level, the contradictions are usually manageable. And there are also technical solutions that can be used. The question is often: how do you turn the soil into a sponge that retains as much moisture as possible? This starts with keeping the dams closed, closing the connecting pipes between ditches and constructing reservoirs.

For example, during the historically wet month of February, hardly any water was drained around the Voorstondense forest near Zutphen. But, says dike manager Klip-Martin, responsible for this area: 'There are limits to what we can maintain with technical interventions.' In the longer term, the drought requires a different way of thinking.
16th century streams
Walking along the overgrown stream, Klip-Martin sketches with her hands in the air how this landscape came into being. Glaciers pushed up a large lump of hills during the penultimate ice age. The groundwater layers rose along with it. In the 16th century, the inhabitants discovered that you could create streams here by digging horizontally until the groundwater flowed out of the hill. This water, 'white coal', was used to power paper mills, copper mills and sawmills. The water board wants to make these streams, drawn deep, straight and wide through the hills by human hands, 'more natural', so that the water drains less quickly. Shallow, narrower, meandering, overgrown with plants that slow down the water.

"We used to mow everything neatly here," Dorman points out the green wealth around the waterway. 'Now we mow much later, and often only on one side of the stream. Then the flow slows down and the water has the opportunity to sink into the ground.'

In fact, the vegetation should also be adjusted, says Klip-Martin as she walks under the many long conifers. The pine forests, planted here in the 19th century to provide the Limburg mines with sturdy beams, bear needles for twelve months a year, which catch the winter rains before they can penetrate the ground. They also drink groundwater all year round. 'It would be better to have deciduous trees here,' she thinks. 'Only, we are not about that. This forest belongs to different landowners.'

Where water used to be mainly a nuisance, it is now increasingly a distribution issue. Dorman points to the sprinklers of the neighboring farm, which fan out a soft mist above the grassland: 'Even low-value crops such as grass and corn have been irrigated in recent years. In the past that didn't pay off. But replacing a completely dried-out turf is expensive.'

To protect nature, Klip-Martin has banned spraying with surface water in almost the entire water board. In the historically dry summer of 2018, she imposed this ban on July 2. In 2019, it already had to be on June 5. This year: May 18. Now many farmers use pumped groundwater. Klip-Martin fears that we are losing more and more of the clear, sand-purified freshwater reservoir under the Veluwe, also through drinking water extraction and evaporation. She wants to discuss this with major users such as drinking water companies, industry and farmers.

"There is currently not one agency with a complete overview of groundwater pumping," she says. Medium-sized users request permission from the water board, large-scale users from the province. For installations under one hundred cubic meters per hour, farmers only need to report. That's a lot: an average household uses one hundred cubic meters of water in a year.
Common sense
Art Wolleswinkel, board member for water of the farmers' association LTO in the Gelderse Vallei, would like to have a conversation. But he does not see a problem with irrigation by farmers. 'Most farmland actually provides more groundwater. Fields catch almost all the rain, after which it sinks into the soil. Then shouldn't farmers be allowed to pump some water again?' He sees more benefit in a different drinking water supply. 'Vitens is extracting more and more groundwater here. They better get that from the Randmeren.'

The drought makes the dike manager's work, which used to be mainly a technical job, more political. 'Our water management works as part of a larger system. Where are the nature reserves, the water buffers, the buildings?'

The rule has always been 'level follows function' - the water board tinkers with the water level until it matches the zoning plan. 'It no longer works that simply. In the Netherlands, the water system is reaching the limits of feasibility. We are increasingly forced to have an opinion about other people's areas of work.'

This realization is also starting to dawn on The Hague. From 2022, the new environmental law will offer water boards more policy space. In April, Minister Ollongren of the Interior called in a letter to Parliament for the creation of areas where water can be buffered. 'Relocation of functions (agriculture, nature, housing) will be required in a number of cases.'

Is this a silent revolution? Klip-Martin falls silent for a moment. 'Yes. This is a big step that we have been hoping for for a long time. We cannot just keep setting up pumps and dams, we will also have to adapt to the natural water system and the changing climate.'

She also has concrete plans for that. The Veluwe freshwater bubble is not only shrinking due to excessive groundwater use and warm summers. Historical maps show that the upland area was once surrounded by a ring of swamps and peatlands. These formed a horizontal counter-pressure for the Veluwe groundwater, which threatened to seep away due to gravity into the lower surrounding area. Now that everything has been drained so effectively, that groundwater still washes out and eventually disappears into the sea.

Klip-Martin: 'We want to restore those swamps and peat areas in some places. Then you use a natural system to stop that upwelling water.' Peat and swamp also absorb a lot of CO2, while drying peat emits a lot of greenhouse gases.
Moisture nuisance
Maarten Kuiper of research agency Wareco fears that the swamps and lakes around the cities will not remain neatly in place. 'People often think in terms of a top view, from Google Maps so to speak. Planners sometimes forget that water also moves underground.' These water buffers can raise the groundwater level in cities such as Apeldoorn. This increases the risk of moisture problems in homes.

Wolleswinkel from the LTO farmers' association is also less enthusiastic. 'This plan hits me pretty hard. Nobody wants dehydration, of course. But it is a shame to simply turn good agricultural land into a swamp.' Problems are more likely to occur in urban areas. 'Everything there is tiled shut.' It can also be done more subtly, he thinks. His own fields already have more herbs and grasses with longer roots that retain water better.

When she walks out of the forest again, Klip-Martin shakes her head: it won't be easy. It was not easy when she had to tell corn growers in 2018 that they were not allowed to spray with surface water, but their neighbors, the fruit growers, were allowed because they had a higher-quality product. And the hardest part is yet to come: the discussions with all parties involved about groundwater and the spatial planning of the country. 'But it has to be done. Groundwater belongs to everyone, including the generations after us. We have to be careful with that.'
WATER FACTORY LOOKS FOR IT IN THE SEWER
The banal fact that water always flows downwards makes life for water managers in high-altitude areas slightly more difficult than in the western lowlands. In order to keep the water in local circulation for a little longer, the water board is building the Wilp Water Factory, where sewage water is extensively purified and returned to a local stream. The Water Factory, currently still a pilot, is a large warehouse made of green corrugated iron full of humming machines. The incoming sewage water first flows through a grate and a sand trap. Then a fine sieve catches the cellulose, especially from flushed toilet paper. The shiny metal cabinets next pick out phosphate and ammonium, the main ingredients of fertilizer. That will in turn reduce phosphorus mining in the Western Sahara. The classic method of purifying sewage water is to mix in a bacterial culture, which eats the impurities. Unfortunately, these bacteria also cause a significant burst of greenhouse gases. This new process makes those bacteria redundant. The last machine in the row has a tap from which crystal clear water can be drawn. No drinking water yet, but almost.

View the original page: page 18, page 19

Graphic

 
Area manager Dennis Dorman shows dike manager Tanja Klip-Martin how high the Voorstondensebeek normally is.

Load Date: July 27, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")