Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Valkenhorst 'rushes on'; new construction district Zoning plan will be determined before the elections
Leidsch Dagblad
January 12, 2022 Wednesday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 3
Length: 692 words
Byline: Hielke Biemond
Body


new construction district Zoning plan will be determined before the elections
An ultimate attempt to transfer the political decision-making about the new village of Valkenhorst beyond the municipal elections in March has failed.
Katwijk
Council members Jaap Haasnoot (KiesKatwijk) and Gijsbert Schrijvers (Hart voor Katwijk) circulated an extensive plea for this behind the scenes during the political winter break. They could only count on the support of Sonny Spek from opposition colleague Durf, although he did not agree with the precise wording.
"The train is thundering on," sigh the initiators of the proposal to postpone.
The Katwijk municipal council will therefore start a series of meetings next week about the zoning plan for the 5,600 new-build homes at the former Valkenburg air base, much to the relief of construction councilor Gerard Mostert.
Madness, argue Haasnoot and Schrijvers. They find it impossible to critically assess the approximately four thousand pages in one month. According to the two opposition parties, the council members, including those from the major parties, should receive specialized advice from outside in order to properly fulfill their assessment task.
In addition, according to Haasnoot and Schrijvers, there is still far too much uncertainty to be able to make a well-considered judgment about the huge zoning plan at this time. First of all, in terms of the enormous additional costs, such as building schools and creating recreational areas for the new residents.
To assure
An initial calculation has shown that the current plans for Valkenhorst, which, according to councilors Mostert and Van Helden (finance), are too ambitious, would cause the municipality to have budget deficits worth millions from 2038. And this while the province is very concerned about the current financial health of the municipality for the second year in a row.
"The stakes are too great to make decisions again without all the consequences being clear," say Haasnoot and Schrijvers. "We cannot do that to the new city council."
They also think it is illogical to rush because of the uncertainty about Alderman Mostert's nitrogen solution. Due to the rapid new developments in this area, it is not yet clear whether buying up the emission rights of two old Valkenburg farms and a greenhouse horticulture company will be sufficient to keep the zoning plan in place at the Council of State.
Finally, the two opposition parties do not want to approve a plan that they do not support in substance, with only 36 percent affordable housing. The House of Representatives recently urged that this be increased to at least fifty percent on all grounds of the National Real Estate Agency.
Power position
According to the councilor, who fervently hopes that the new cabinet will take the money for this, these percentages can easily be adjusted in the zoning plan after adoption by the municipal council. Haasnoot and Schrijvers would much prefer to maintain their 'position of power' until the cabinet has come to terms.
Postponement until after the municipal elections is not negotiable for the alderman. According to him, it would take a new municipal council months to master the complicated matter. In addition, the new Environmental Act, which will be introduced on July 1, may mean that the zoning plan will have to be reformulated in a completely different form.
In short: an unwanted new delay, while the construction of the new village from 2023 is desperately needed to alleviate some of the pressure on the housing market.
Haasnoot and Schrijvers do not care about this: they do not think it is in the long-term interest of the residents that decision-making is now 'messed around'. "For example, we are faced with many other costs, such as the construction of many new schools in existing villages. Will we still be able to do that with this millstone around our necks?''
The stakes are too great to make decisions again without all the consequences being clear
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 11, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")