Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=From construction to demolition: there will soon be only one counter for permits
Friesch Dagblad
December 27, 2023 Wednesday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 768 words
Byline: Henk van der Laan
Body


On January 1, the time has finally come: after years of delay after delay, the Environmental Act will come into effect. The new law should make it easier for citizens to apply for permits for 'spatial projects'. But there have been many doubts about the implementation.
The Environmental Act is one of the many major system changes that the Rutte II reform and austerity cabinet (2012-2017, VVD/PvdA) has devised. While most of these changes are now receiving a lot of criticism and some, such as the social loan system, have even been reversed, the Environmental Act will only come into effect on January 1, 2024.
That was not the intention of Melanie Schultz van Haegen, then Minister of Infrastructure and Water Management, when she presented the law in 2014 as "the largest legislative operation since the constitutional amendment of 1848". That was a fine example of exaggeration because, although crucial, the constitutional amendment of 1848 was not that big - and that of 1983 was much bigger.
Complex undertaking
This does not alter the fact that the Environmental Act has become a complex undertaking, in legal terms but especially in implementation. That is why the law, which was supposed to come into effect on July 1, 2019, has been postponed six times. The complexity of the Environmental Act mainly lies in its size.
The law bundles and replaces all existing regulations and permits that still exist in the spatial environment. 26 laws are bundled into one. And sixty general administrative orders (AMvBs) and one hundred ministerial regulations are reduced to four and ten respectively under the Environmental Act.
Over the years, various regulations have been developed by various authorities for construction, renovation or demolition. This may concern environmental permits, safety regulations or building permits. Anyone who wants to demolish an old shed and replace it with a garage may now have to visit several counters. The aim of the Environmental Act is that a private individual or company can now arrange everything at one counter, or better: one website.
And that is of course quite an operation. Officials have been working for years to translate all new legislation and regulations to the new situation. That's not all, because citizens must be able to easily find their way there via a logical system. Combining all information flows into such a handy system was the biggest job.
Six postponements
And that amount of work was also the reason for the frequent postponement of the introduction. Already in 2017, Schultz van Haegen had to report that 2019 would not work and that it would be January 1, 2021. But due to the corona crisis, this was postponed to January 1, 2022, a date that was also not met. The introduction was repeatedly postponed for six months, until January 1, 2024 became the seventh and final implementation date.
In the past year, the doubts mainly concerned the functioning of the underlying ICT system that governments and applicants must use for permit applications. The national government has a long tradition of ICT systems that do not function properly, something that led to a parliamentary investigation in 2012.
In 2015, this Elias committee judged, among other things, that the ICT knowledge of the central government is often inadequate, that the government cannot realize its ICT policy ambitions and that the accountability and decision-making structure for ICT projects is inadequate. The committee therefore also proposed setting up an ICT Assessment Advisory Board.
Last and this year, this advisory board issued warnings about the Digital System Environmental Act (DSO), the system that technically supports the law. It would still have 'significant limitations' and that could cause problems when issuing permits. The Senate was sensitive to this argument and did not want to give permission for the law to come into force for a long time.
Legislative soap opera
But on March 15, Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing) received support from the Senate after a number of promises, for introduction on January 1, 2024. Although shortly before that, the Council of State had expressed concerns about the user-friendliness and accessibility of the new law. .
But provinces, water boards and municipalities insisted on finally starting with the Environmental Act. The Senate appeared not to be insensitive to this. This finally brought an end to the biggest legislative soap opera in The Hague since the general equalization between special and public education in 1917.
Anyone who wants to replace an old shed with a garage can now easily
have to go through different counters

Load Date: January 23, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")