Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='A lot of satisfaction with Lisse'; interview Alderman Langeveld presents Environmental Vision 2040
Leidsch Dagblad
September 1, 2021 Wednesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 5
Length: 693 words
Byline: Ed Olivier
Body


interview Alderman Langeveld presents Environmental Vision 2040
What should Lisse look like in 2040? This has been the central question for councilor Jolanda Langeveld in all street conversations, physical or digital meetings and surveys about the Environmental Vision 2040 in recent months.
Lisse
The councilor even asked the question in a daycare center; colleague Van der Zwet spoke to entrepreneurs and farmers and councilor Van Haaster spoke to young people. Hundreds of residents have given their opinions, expressed wishes and shared ideas.
Jolanda's own history with the bulb village is exemplary of what has been wrong in Lisse for some time. Born and raised in Lisse, she and her partner managed to secure a rental apartment in the record time of a year, but the young couple subsequently failed to find an affordable single-family home. They bought a house in Hoofddorp; four years later he finally managed to buy a house in Lisse.
"What makes you want to return to Lisse? The club life, the conviviality, the village character with an urban touch and of course family and friends. That's what we came back for. We had a great house, nice neighbors, but Haarlemmermeer is not Lisse. You'll be on the beach here in no time; Keukenhof forest nearby, beautiful facilities. The events, especially the autumn festivals, provide a certain sense of solidarity."
Middle class
The draft Environmental Vision presented on Tuesday shows that Lisse no longer has a middle class. Of the residents, 50 percent belong to high incomes and 40 percent to low incomes. The middle group is only 10 percent.
Not enough affordable houses are being built, which means that young families have to move to Haarlemmermeer, among other things. Older people stay in single-family homes for too long because there are no affordable apartments.
Until now, it was assumed that Lisse would have enough eight hundred new homes until 2030, in the last new-build districts of Dever-zuid and Geestwater for the time being, but new research shows that Lisse's housing need is in excess of a thousand homes.
"I hear a lot of satisfaction about Lisse," says Langeveld. "People think it is a pleasant village to live in. They are proud of the sports and cultural facilities, the cinema, the monuments, the Square. Pleasant shopping, good food .Beautiful surroundings, close to major cities."
Green
However, the Environmental Vision also states that residents are dissatisfied with the greenery in the neighborhoods and that Lisse scores poorly in the field of heat stress. Langeveld: “Yes, parking is very important,” said a number of young families I spoke to. Make it a bit more sustainable and greener. As residents, we also want to do something about this. I found that surprising; we have to create space for that. Some neighborhoods are at greater risk of flooding and heat stress. We need to find a new balance between buildings, greenery and water. If we just start building, we won't make it."
"We want to keep young families in Lisse, but of course it is not just about living, but also about working. We must pay more attention to working from home, combined functions; making working from home possible."
Combined living/working is being investigated in two places in Lisse: the Microformat location on the Heereweg and the Swets and Zeitlinger building. Living above shops is also part of this. Langeveld: "People have worked a lot from home during corona times and there is now also a demand for facilities for combined working from home. We want to give that a chance."
People find it a pleasant village to live in
environmental code
In the context of the new Environmental Act, all Dutch municipalities must draw up an Environmental Vision on living, working, recreation, environmental policy and nature conservation in the municipality as of January 1, 2022. The law replaces 26 laws in the field of building and safety regulations, the environment, noise and soil quality. All applications will soon be processed at a single counter, which means that it will be easier for citizens and companies to obtain permits.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 31, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")