Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The peat meadow approach can be an example of better use of space
Friesch Dagblad
November 24, 2021 Wednesday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 662 words
Body


Continued from the front page
With regard to the Frisian peat meadow area, according to Klaas Sietse Spoelstra, the various authorities are aware that the area requires an integrated approach. “But then you often see that no action is taken. A shame, because in the coming years billions of euros will be released from the European Union and The Hague for the agricultural and energy transition. If you are at the forefront, you will also be at the forefront of the distribution of subsidies."
According to Hans van der Werf of the Frisian Environmental Federation, the Rli's advice comes at exactly the right time in view of the environmental law that will come into effect next year. "The Rli criticizes the government's lack of direction. We have always encountered this in recent years with a view to the energy transition. Whether it concerns solar meadows or wind turbines, there is no direction as to what goes where, resulting in fragmentation and fragmentation."
As far as Van der Werf is concerned, the lesson of the past decades is that the market has not been able to solve the major problems that the Netherlands is facing. "You also saw that in the discussion about onshore wind turbines. Project developers only went for profit, which had a bad effect on support among residents."
Peat meadow approach
Van der Werf also sees something in the peat meadow approach that the Rli advocates and which he believes the province should take more seriously. "Let the province of Fryslân indicate goals and frameworks, for example a water level increase to -40 centimeters below NAP. Further implementation is then a matter for farmers, residents and nature organizations. For example, combining a ditch structure in one area, pressure drainage in the other and very wet areas with meadow bird areas."
According to him, the emphasis of the advice on longer-term policy is something that farmers are also waiting for. "It is clear that something is about to change in agriculture. The instruments are there and there is money. The question is: do we want it? The half-baked government approach of recent years has certainly not helped farmers. Give them clarity and perspective."
Next elections
Spoelstra also hopes that provincial organizations and politicians will dare to look beyond the next elections. “It requires leadership to work beyond the next coalition agreement. And civil servants can also show more courage to break out of their sometimes somewhat compartmentalized assignment and procedures."
What appeals to landscape architect Peter de Ruyter is the Rli's advice to involve socio-cultural history in new developments. "They rightly argue that we should pay attention to the meaning of the landscape, what kind of people live there and the social culture that exists in a region. In Fryslân, with its 'talk until St. Juttemis' culture, the latter can stand in the way of firm action."
Citizen panels
De Ruyter also noticed the emphasis on long-term vision in the advice. "The plea to involve citizen panels in area development can prevent politicians from not daring to take steps with a view to the next elections."
He also thinks the regional scale recommended by the Rli is sensible, just like taking the soil and water systems of a region as a starting point for an area approach. "This was not taken into account during the land consolidation after the Second World War. The ruthless approach of that time caused enormous impoverishment in the deep peat polders in the middle of Fryslân. We now desperately need the ditches and ditches that disappeared at that time for climate adaptation."
He found it striking that the Rli mentioned the document Natural Friesland 2050 by the Frisian nature organizations as an example of how a vision can be developed in a promotional manner. "In this way, apart from the discussion about money and responsibilities, you can sketch a future that can make people enthusiastic and involved."
The half-baked government approach to
in any case, it has not helped farmers in recent years
Link to PDF

Load Date: November 23, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")