Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Further simplification of Leiden rules
Leidsch Dagblad
March 25, 2016 Friday


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page LDN007
Length: 425 words
Body


 To lead
Leiden entrepreneurs can count on their municipality to continue to make efforts
to reduce regulatory burden. This is evident from a letter from the council of
mayor and aldermen to the municipal council.
After a major operation in 2010, which involved a large number of rules and regulations
regulations were abolished and the municipality built up a national reputation as
pioneer in that area, the city council is now starting a new round. This to
prevent the number of rules from gradually increasing again, and to keep an eye on things
or rules that could not be deleted at the time, perhaps now
can go into the trash. After all, a lot is also changing from the national government - in the
new Environmental Act that is expected to come into effect in 2018 are the
rules from 26 old laws bundled and simplified where possible.
Leiden has now signed up for a project from the Ministry of
economic affairs together with the trade association Koninklijk Horeca Nederland
(KHN) and the VNG to create a digital 'regulation aid'. That program has to be it
make it easier for municipalities and entrepreneurs to comply with local regulations
simplify and clarify. It is expected to be ready before the summer.
It is no coincidence that KHN is involved in this. It is often the catering industry
who has to deal with or complains about the regulatory burden. It is in Leiden
has also become easier for the catering industry in recent years, but recently there was
yet another disappointment. For legal reasons, the municipality must all
recording terrace activities in the zoning plans. "We regret this"
write B and W, who believe that it is in the General Local Regulation
(APV) is already well arranged. The municipality is still investigating whether this is possible
terrace permits, it is not possible to combine some procedures.
In general, the municipality believes that the services provided to entrepreneurs
has improved considerably over the last ten years. To find out if entrepreneurs
If you agree, Leiden will take part in the Poll from this year onwards
Entrepreneurial Climate' (POK). The municipality will now also participate in the 'Monitor
Local Economic Power', so that a comparison with other cities is possible.
Furthermore, the city council reports that the red carpet is going out for entrepreneurs and them
interest groups. The number of civil servants working on this is for that purpose
increases. And officials will soon be required to respond
some questions before changing or setting a rule. Such as: what is the
necessity for this rule, and what is its purpose?

Load Date: March 25, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")