Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Meetings
Leidsch Dagblad
April 11, 2020 Saturday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2020 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: PLUS; Page 009
Length: 488 words
Body


  In times of corona, democracy is on the back burner. An anthology. The Minister of Defense incorrectly informed the House of Representatives about the number of civilian deaths in the bombing of the Iraqi city of Hawija.
The Environmental Act was supposed to come into effect early next year: an administrative monstrosity that many have already warned about, but now everything has been postponed. It was also recently announced that the opening of Lelystad Airport will not take place for the time being. To complete the picture, new nitrogen rules may be introduced. Normally these topics would lead to heated debates and we would openly speculate about the possible political consequences. But now… none of that. The House of Representatives has been meeting only about the corona epidemic for weeks and that is why all these issues are at a standstill. Only when corona is further under control will the rest be taken care of again. Painful, for example, when it concerns civilian deaths in Iraq, a subject such as nitrogen that farmers have been protesting against for months or an Environmental Act that requires an unimaginable amount of work for municipalities. Can all these themes wait? It is slowly becoming clear that waiting is unacceptable and we see signs everywhere that this will soon change. For example, this week the Senate discussed an emergency law that temporarily gives municipalities, provinces and water boards the opportunity to meet digitally and make decisions. Otherwise, municipal democracy, among other things, would virtually come to a standstill. It's the same in Brussels. The European Parliament has now also introduced a digital procedure in order to continue to function. The question quickly arises as to why work in the House of Representatives should largely come to a standstill. The House of Representatives sometimes also makes exceptions itself. This week in Brussels there was talk about Eurobonds, a type of EU loans in which the Netherlands is in debt together with countries such as Italy. This leads to strong disagreements. According to critics, southern countries in particular benefit from it, while proponents consider it a useful form of European solidarity. The House of Representatives was able to meet about the negotiations in the Eurogroup. It soon became clear how useful that was: all of Europe now understands that the Netherlands does not want those European loans. Fortunately they don't come. Finally, individual MPs also started to wake up this week. By pushing all the work forward, problems are simply left behind, continuing meetings sends a positive signal to citizens that democracy continues to function and since many continue to work digitally at home as best they can, members of the House of Representatives must do the same. If they can read documents and make video calls at home, they can also hold digital meetings if necessary. The residents of Lelystad Airport, the farmers and all those others are entitled to it.
 Chris Aalberts

Load Date: April 10, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")