Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Permit costs for new construction are increasingly higher in many municipalities
Friesch Dagblad
August 29, 2022 Monday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 433 words
Byline: Jan Ybema
Highlight: Leeuwarden Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge should intervene if the costs for a new construction permit continue to rise, according to the Eigen Huis Association (VEH). In many Frisian municipalities, these fees increased again this year, even significantly in some cases.
Body


Anyone who has a house built must obtain a permit and the municipality charges money for this: an empty one. These costs continue to vary greatly per municipality, according to the annual study by the VEH. The association's research assumes a new-build home weighing four tons, the construction costs of which amount to 170,000 euros. Ameland and Harlingen charge less than three thousand euros for this and are therefore among the cheapest municipalities in the Netherlands, while Terschelling is the second most expensive municipality in the Netherlands with more than twelve thousand euros, directly below the municipality of Wormerland.
On average, new construction fees in Fryslân increased by 2.5 percent to more than five thousand euros. In the municipalities of De Fryske Marren, Achtkarspelen, Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling, costs increased between 100 and 200 euros compared to 2021. The biggest increases are Waadhoeke, with 451 euros, and Leeuwarden, with no less than 667 euros more than last year - cost increases of around the 12 percent.
The increase threatens to get out of hand, says VEH director Cindy Kremer. “The enormous increases in some municipalities are unacceptable to us. This makes it even more difficult to have a house built. Before the new Environmental Act comes into effect, agreements must be made with municipalities about the rate calculation. The municipal council can then check the costs and intervene if necessary."
Kremer fears that the Private Quality Assurance Act, which comes into effect on January 1, will also lead to additional costs in construction supervision. The VEH wants guarantees from Minister De Jonge that these extra costs will not be passed on to buyers through higher permit costs. "If that does happen, the government must be able to intervene quickly." The homeowners' association is concerned every year about the construction fees and the large cost differences between municipalities, but so far this has always been in vain.
Dormer
For a small renovation, such as a dormer window costing 10,000 euros, the fees in most Frisian municipalities did not increase or increased by only a few euros, except in Leeuwarden, where such a permit costs 43 euros more this year than last year, an increase of 12 percent. Ameland is once again one of the cheapest municipalities to have a dormer window built, while Terschelling is the most expensive after Veenendaal.
Nationally, construction fees rose by an average of 2.7 percent. The VEH points out that municipalities determined the rates at the end of last year, before inflation struck. The association is therefore concerned that rates may increase much more next year.
Link to PDF

Load Date: August 29, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")