Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Scout must smooth out the area
Leidsch Dagblad
May 23, 2018 Wednesday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 006
Length: 394 words
Byline: Marieta Kroft
Body


  Developer and local residents happy with independent person's research
Voorschoten An explorer is investigating why the development of homes between the Korte Vliet and the Leidseweg Noord in Voorschoten is not getting off the ground. Mayor Pauline Bouvy has approached someone from outside for this.
The Leidseweg Noord Committee and project developer Niersman are happy with this decision. “It is good if an independent external person looks at it. Otherwise we will remain diametrically opposed to each other." The 1.2 hectare undeveloped site was designated as a pilot project by the municipality in 2016. This means that the project developer must reach agreement on a construction plan with local residents. The municipality continues to determine the zoning plan and issues the environmental permit, but does not otherwise interfere with the process. This approach is in line with the Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2021. However, the new approach led to an impasse. Residents and developers lack input from the municipality, which sets rules for a construction plan in advance. Niersman and local residents have been in discussions since October. "In short, we want as much greenery as possible and as few houses as possible," says Pieter de Wit of the committee that presented a petition with 120 signatures to the municipality in April. "We assume a maximum of eighty houses, which is also stated in the municipality's 'housing vision'." Niersman understands this wish, but he believes that between a hundred and a hundred and twenty houses are needed for feasibility. “The residential vision is based on the Segaar site, which we own. The municipality has asked us to also include their land on the south side in the plan. In that case it will be more than eighty. The residents feel overwhelmed by this. That is why it would have been clearer if the principles had been known in advance." Whether the lack of frameworks is indeed the problem, must become clear from the scout's research. Mayor Bouvy hopes that he or she can draw conclusions in July. In the meantime, landowners De Raad Bouw, Niersman and Van der Valk are making a plan for Starrenburg III. That neighborhood with more than three hundred houses will not be a pilot project. Although the municipality wants to give builders as much freedom as possible, frameworks are set for some parts.

Load Date: May 22, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")