Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Surprised after years of consultation'; northgo site Hamburger chain McDonald's overwhelmed by Katwijk rejection
Leidsch Dagblad
February 19, 2021 Friday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 456 words
Byline: Hielke Biemond
Body


northgo site Hamburger chain McDonald's overwhelmed by Katwijk rejection
McDonald's is overwhelmed by Katwijk's rejection of the move to the 't Heen industrial estate.
Katwijk
 "When we look for a new location, we explore the area, we follow the procedures and we usually do this in good consultation with each other," explains the spokesperson for the hamburger chain. "After years of consultation, this decision has taken us by surprise."
Nineteen years after the rapid closure of a poorly performing branch at the head of Voorstraat, McDonald's is still not represented in the coastal town. The fast food giant wanted to change that with the arrival of a restaurant and McDrive near the N206, on the former Northgo site on Zeilmakersstraat, next to the Gamma.
However, the Katwijk municipal council is of the opinion that the requested permit does not fit within the zoning plan for the important industrial estate. The detailed substantiation of the rejection states, among other things, that catering and advertising are not permitted there, and that the plan also does not meet the structural requirements.
The municipality does not consider it possible to deviate from the zoning plan in this case. The political will for this is also lacking: Katwijk believes it is undesirable to allow a hamburger restaurant near secondary schools. That would be contrary to its own policy to combat obesity among children and young people.
Yes, provided
Couldn't the city council have said that immediately when McDonald's came knocking in 2018? Not according to the still young Environmental Act. This instructs municipalities to always assume 'yes, provided' when submitting plans, never 'no, unless'. So first discuss in detail, go through preparatory procedures, try to remove possible bottlenecks and only then strictly test the permit application against the zoning plan.
The fact that this can put entrepreneurs on the wrong track was also evident from the bewilderment of Intratuin owner Sjaco Griffioen last year. After years of preparations, he assumed that municipal approval for his new location in Valkenburg was only a matter of time. Nothing turned out to be further from the truth.
The spokesperson does not want to answer the question of whether McDonald's will contest the unexpected rejection or accept it. The latter certainly does not apply to faction leader Sonny Spek of opposition party Durf. In written questions to the municipal council, he speaks of 'patronising' and wants to know whether the hamburger restaurant can be built if the municipal council changes the zoning plan for the 't Heen business park.
When we look at a new place, we explore the area
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 19, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")