Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Fresh laws
Friesch Dagblad
November 14, 2023 Tuesday


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 663 words
Body


A whole host of legislation that is important for the energy transition will be thrown at us in the near future. At the risk of losing you at the word 'legislation', I would like to draw your attention to what that means.
Because our current energy legislation dates from the happy days of a liberalized energy market with 'clean' coal-fired power stations and almost endless Groningen gas. In short, high time for new rules of the game. I would be happy to guide you through it.
The challenges are great if we want to tackle the climate crisis. It will not have escaped your notice that the energy supply will have to become more sustainable at a rapid pace. When we think of sustainable energy, everyone thinks of solar power and wind energy - the developers with euro signs and some with landscape pain in their eyes. Although during this election period some political parties would rather talk about the dream solution that hydrogen and nuclear energy could - one day - offer us, we cannot avoid surrounding ourselves with more wind turbines and solar parks. In such a case, the environment itself must benefit from that development.
The biggest challenge is even closer. How do we get all households and the entire industry off natural gas? The government is taking plenty of time to do this, and it should be successful in the next 25 years. It seems that in many villages and neighborhoods a collective approach is the most efficient. These can be heating networks or individual solutions, but all at the same time. The municipality is responsible for ensuring that everything runs smoothly. An integrated neighborhood approach, as it is called in the jargon, is then the standard.
But back to all that new legislation. First of all, the Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, 2024. This bundles all rules and organizes permitting behind one counter, including for all sustainable projects. Then comes the successor to the Gas Act and the Electricity Act: these will be combined in the Energy Act. The intention of this law is, among other things, to offer citizens more rights and protection at a time when the price of energy supplies is under heavy pressure.
The Collective Heat Supply Act regulates everything surrounding heat networks. Although relatively unknown in the Netherlands, heat networks in urban areas and large villages can connect all houses and commercial buildings to sustainable heat sources such as geothermal, aquathermal or residual heat in one go. In the long term, most homes will be heated cheaply via a heating network, the accountants from The Hague indicate.
Finally, municipalities are given the opportunity to make local rules to implement the transition from natural gas to sustainable forms of energy. The Municipal Heat Transition Instruments Act is being prepared for this purpose. For the first time, the municipality will have powers to impose obligations. Just so you know.
Although these laws are not yet in force - they are still being written and most of them still have to survive the critical test of the Council of State - we can already get a clear picture of the contours. Let me highlight one for you. Collectives such as energy cooperatives or village mill associations will - finally - have an official role in the energy transition. This has been lobbied for a long time and has finally come to fruition.
These laws reserve space for Citizens' Energy Communities (for generating electricity) and Heat Boards (for collective heat). Where groups of citizens unite in this form, they can make fair agreements with governments when and, in particular, how homes will turn off gas. Or how village mills and solar parks can reduce citizens' energy bills.
Cheap, sustainable energy whose burdens are fairly distributed. The laws will be there soon; it's up to us to make the best of it.
The biggest challenge is even closer. How do we get all households and the entire industry off natural gas?
Link to PDF

Load Date: November 13, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")