Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Building with less hassle
NRC.NEXT
March 18, 2016 Friday


Copyright 2016 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: economics; Page 22-23
Length: 943 words
Byline: By our editorJos Verlaan
Body


environmental code
Municipalities are already anticipating the new Environmental Act that the Senate will soon adopt. This leads to less bureaucracy. Or not.
The Hague. Project leader Jeroen Traudes of the municipality of Leiden calls the introduction of the Environmental Act radical for the entire official organization. Civil servants who are used to running their own business, for example the environment, now have to work together with their colleagues from nature management. Or that of spatial planning. "And the Environmental Act places other, more drastic requirements on civil servants when thinking about the future of the city," says Traudes. "Civil servants must dare to think about the 'state of the city' in 40 years!"
Leiden already works with the Environmental Act, which is not expected to be introduced nationally until 2018. The Senate will decide on it this month. The law bundles all legislation and regulations in the field of spatial planning, the environment and the living environment. This should result in less bureaucracy, shorter procedures and more effectiveness for municipalities. The Crisis and Recovery Act introduced in 2010 will be included in the new law. In practice, this should mean that industrial estates, for example, can be more easily converted into residential areas. Without the current hassle of complicated objection procedures and participation.
Responsible minister Melanie Schultz (Infrastructure & Environment, VVD) effortlessly guided the law through the House of Representatives last June, only GroenLinks and the Party for the Animals voted against. The Senate was more critical this week, but Schultz does not have to fear the law's passage.
It does not end there, because there will be many additional regulations, such as those regarding the powers of provinces and municipalities. About environmental criteria that apply to all municipalities. Or about the way in which objection periods and consultation procedures are arranged.
But local experiments with the new law are already underway. Leiden is working with nine neighboring municipalities on a so-called environmental vision, to replace the current structural vision. And just as the structural vision is now the basis for the zoning plan, the environmental vision is the basis for the future environmental plan. This will then replace the current zoning plan.
City conversations
"Just like the zoning plan, this structural vision regulates spatial planning policy," says Traudes. "The environmental vision goes further. It is about the organization of society. So also about the environment, sustainability, nature protection, the long-term consequences of aging , education, sustainability or mobility. How do Leiden residents want to grow old? Should the city invest further in high-quality education and what is needed for this? Officials took to the streets in Leiden to ask how residents would like to experience their city in 2040. And what the government must do to make that possible.
In Utrecht, too, work is being done on an environmental vision based on the new law and city discussions and 'initiative cafés' are being organised. "These city conversations are discussions about themes that we are working on as a municipality," says planner Martine van Rijn of the municipality of Utrecht. Here too, the law means an official cultural change.
 “Will civil servants from different disciplines be able to work together? Civil servants who have never looked over each other's fence before now have to do so. Those who are currently involved in spatial planning at city hall will soon also have to know what their environmental colleagues are doing with air pollution and traffic. And vice versa. This requires a cultural change that must become a reality in 2018."
Experts point to gaps in the law. Because who has the say in conflicts has not been determined, says assistant professor Daniel Korsse of Utrecht University. "It is unclear who has the final say: municipality, province or, as a last resort, Brussels."
“A lot of work has been done in a short time,” said Professor Tonny Nijmeijer of Radboud University Nijmegen during a hearing on the bill at the end of last year. To immediately add: "so much for the kind words". Because although numerous laws are bundled, according to Nijmeijer this will hardly result in simpler procedures or less bureaucracy.
A concern that Senator Petra Stienen (D66) shares. "The new law must contribute to a healthy living environment, cleaner air and clean water. The minister must provide guarantees for this." According to Stienen, Schultz must also ensure that municipalities record the climate agreements of the environmental summit in Paris in the environmental plans.
The lack of these additional regulations is a sore point for most factions in the Senate. The PvdA wants a guarantee that the four so-called General Administrative Measures, in which the additional rules are laid down, will also be submitted to the Senate. "If these are insufficient, the legislation can still be blocked," said PvdA senator Lambert Verheijen.
According to GroenLinks senator Marijke Vos, the additional regulations are a tangle of "hundreds of pages that can hardly be understood by almost anyone."
In Leiden, too, we have to wait and see how the law will work out. “We still have a way to go officially. A lot of data is floating around the organization in fragmented form. And the data exchange between municipalities also leaves much to be desired. We have no maps of Wassenaar or Voorschoten here. And that will probably be the case the other way around."
Officials take to the streets with the question: how do residents want to experience the city in 2040?
The new law does not specify who has the say in conflicts

Graphic

 
  A new shopping center will soon rise behind this playground in Leidschendam. With the new Environmental Act, municipalities will soon - if all goes well - have less trouble with bureaucracy.

Load Date: March 17, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")