Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Delay threatens for Nieuw Boekhorst plan
Leidsch Dagblad
May 4, 2022 Wednesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 5
Length: 522 words
Byline: Sjaak Smakman
Body


Teylingen
There is a lot of pressure on the Teylingen municipal council to quickly make decisions about Nieuw Boekhorst. If the municipality is unable to make the zoning plan available for inspection before the end of this year, an environmental plan will have to be drawn up for the new residential area, which will result in years of delay.
This means that the municipal council must adopt the so-called area vision for the new district before the summer, which serves as the basis for the zoning plan.
The council sketches this picture in a note about Nieuw Boekhorst. The reason for the pressure on the process is the introduction of the new Environmental Act. This combines a number of currently separate procedures, but the introduction has so far encountered many obstacles. The most important of these is the software, which still does not work properly. After a few postponements, the law must now come into effect on January 1, 2023.
If the municipality is unable to make the zoning plan for Nieuw Boekhorst available for inspection before then, an environmental plan must be drawn up for the district in accordance with the new law. But that will immediately become a 'pilot' and that is undesirable for a large project like this, the council believes. And in any case, this will delay construction for years.
In addition, the municipality previously established a pre-emptive right on the land in the Boekhorstpolder, which means that the municipality is the first candidate if an owner wants to sell the land. This gives the municipality more control over what will ultimately happen there. For that reason, the municipality bought a piece of land last year for one and a half million. The municipality may only establish this pre-emptive right for a limited time and will expire in mid-2024.
Social
Last week, politicians appeared to speak well about water, greenery and sustainability, but much less about the affordability of housing. The 30 percent social rent that the council has set in the housing vision is not achieved by 25 percent in the current plan. In the council's vision, those 'missing' sixty homes will become owner-occupied apartments for just under €300,000. The requirement that, in addition to social housing, 35 percent must have a purchase price below 355,000 euros or a rental price below 1,000 euros is also far from being met. In the current plan, this will only be 20 percent, which means about 120 fewer 'accessible' homes.
During the discussion last week, everyone except the VVD stated that 30 percent social rent should really be included in the plan. The CDA suggested an extra layer on the ten residential towers in which social rental would be concentrated. This should provide around fifty additional social rental apartments.
Puzzling
The council will look into this, councilor Marlies Volten has promised, and will come up with a few scenarios. According to the memorandum, it will still be a puzzle, because 65 percent social and accessible construction is not feasible according to the developers. According to the memorandum, sticking to that 65 percent means more small homes, less greenery and a significant contribution to the plan from the municipal treasury.
Urgent action due to the introduction of the new Environmental Act
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 3, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")