Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Four aldermen for Hillegom council
Leidsch Dagblad
April 29, 2022 Friday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 6
Length: 527 words
Byline: Marlies Vording
Body


Hillegom
While there is no prospect of a new council in Haarlem, the coalition agreement is already ready in Hillegom. 'Proudly moving forward!' is the title of the nineteen-page document. The portfolio distribution is also known: Hillegom will have four aldermen: one from the CDA, two from Bevolkingsbelangen Hillegom and one from Bloeiend Hillegom.
That is one more than the last council period. The councilors - all but one of whom are old acquaintances - sit on the council with Mayor Arie van Erk, who is responsible for the portfolios related to Security, Public Order and Subversion.
A newcomer to the board is Maarten Dijkshoorn from Bloeiend Hillegom. He is not a completely new face at the town hall, because Dijkshoorn was previously active as a citizen councilor and councilor. In the coming years he will be responsible for themes such as Mobility, Public Space, Landscape and Nature and Services.
Social domain
As a Senior Policy Advisor, Dijkshoorn has a lot of experience in the field of the social domain. He actually sees the fact that his portfolio has nothing to do with those topics as an advantage. "I have so much professional insight into the social domain that a tendency could quickly arise to become very involved in the implementation of policy." And that is not a task for an alderman, he believes.
Before he starts his term, he plans to read the files thoroughly. “And it is good to show your face to the officials. For the rest, I have experienced colleagues.'' Dijkshoorn has had ambitions to end up in the Hillegom plush for a long time. "I've always said: if it comes my way, I'll go for it. Together we can make Hillegom even more beautiful.”
Is this possible together with coalition partner BHH, with which Bloeiend Hillegom has regularly had disputes in recent years? The would-be councilor has no doubts about that. “The atmosphere was good during the first conversations. We trust each other and we all want the same thing.”
More green
Although Hillegom has things in order, Dijkshoorn still sees areas for improvement. "Like the traffic. There are few arterial roads and we have quite a lot of traffic jams. I also think that Hillegom can be greener, with more plants in the neighborhood. That is where my ambition lies.”
Dijkshoorn ends up on the council with, among others, Jan van Rijn, who, in addition to being an alderman, will also become the first deputy mayor. He focuses on the Social Support Act, Youth Care, Public Health, Education, Sports and Economy.
BBH member Anne de Jong, who was the first deputy mayor in the last council term, can also continue as alderman for four years. He remains responsible for approximately the same portfolios, including Finance, Housing, Land Affairs and Housing for migrant workers.
Karin Hoekstra (CDA) is also allowed to go through another round. She will be given the portfolios of Spatial Planning and Environment, Environmental Act, Sustainability, Art and Culture and Municipal Real Estate.
The coalition agreement will be presented to the municipal council during the April 28 meeting. The intended councilors will be appointed that same evening.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 28, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")