Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Previously, Schiphol shrinkage was unmentionable'; analysis ORS residents' delegation sees a change
Leidsch Dagblad
February 21, 2022 Monday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 6
Length: 805 words
Byline: Annet van Aarsen
Body


analysis ORS residents' delegation sees a change
Fewer flight movements at Schiphol were previously unmentionable. Much to the sadness of the residents' delegation in the Schiphol Environmental Council. Delegation leader Matt Poelmans: "But now? I am becoming increasingly optimistic about the chance of shrinkage."
Schiphol
 For more than a year, the political debate on aviation policy was even quieter than in the Dutch airspace, where far fewer aircraft were flying due to the pandemic. The subject will be back on the agenda of the standing parliamentary committee on Thursday for the first time since the fall of the previous Rutte cabinet - when the Aviation Memorandum was declared controversial. Reason for the residents' delegation in the Schiphol Environmental Council to go to the House of Representatives on Tuesday with a petition and its own citizen vision.
The message in that vision that saw the light of day last November? That the growth policy at Schiphol has an unacceptable influence on health, quality of life, housing, safety, environment and climate and that the government does not sufficiently protect the airport environment against the negative effects. The number of flights grew to 500,000 before the corona crisis, but according to the residents' delegation, the airport did not deserve that growth. The agreement was that to make growth possible, the number of people affected had to decrease. But there was actually a significant increase in the number of people seriously inconvenienced.
The residents' delegation makes a number of recommendations. Such as: stop the so-called 'hub & spokes model' of Schiphol, whereby the airport processes many transfer passengers who do not have the Netherlands as a departure point or final destination. "Aim the size of Schiphol at the needs of Dutch business travelers, tourists and people with destinations in the Netherlands." Another piece of advice: "Real nuisance reduction is only possible by reducing the number of flights."
She has had research done that the Dutch market can cope with around 330,000 flight movements per year from Schiphol. A lot less than the situation before the outbreak of the corona crisis. "In 2018, the story was that aviation should be able to grow from 500,000 to 525,000. In the summer of 2019, the then minister said that 540,000 should also be possible. And the Aviation Memorandum contains an absurd scenario in which 760,000 flights would ultimately be possible," says Poelmans. "You understand: our message before the corona crisis was: stop growing. But gradually we went one step further. We believe that shrinkage should be discussed.”
The nitrogen crisis, among other things, has caused discussions about the future of aviation in the Netherlands to shift. The airport does not comply with the stricter nitrogen regulations, the nature permit is missing and the rules regarding noise and nuisance are not sufficiently complied with. In December, the NOS received a memo in which legal advisors from the then outgoing cabinet recommended draconian measures: including the cancellation of a possible 100,000 flight movements, which would bring the airport to 400,000 flights per year.
Minister Harbers (Infrastructure and Water Management) wrote in a letter to the House of Representatives on Friday that he asked research agency Royal HaskoningDHV to investigate what measures are necessary. It is a major dilemma, he indicates: "As also described in the Coalition Agreement, the Dutch business climate and our economy benefit from an international airport with a high-quality network of global connections. The government wants to maintain our strong hub function. This government also recognizes the impact that Schiphol - as part of the center of the Randstad - has on the immediate (living) environment and the wishes to build additional homes. Attention must be paid to reducing the negative effects of aviation on people, the environment and nature. Local residents are understandably concerned about noise pollution and air quality.”
Houses
According to Matt Poelmans, what may play an even more important role in the near future is the (again postponed) introduction of the Environmental Act. In that law, noise caused by aviation is taken into account (more heavily) when determining whether homes can be built in certain places. It would mean that permits could no longer be issued for the construction of many tens of thousands of homes in North and South Holland.
"The ball is now in the minister's court, he must make a trade-off between network quality and environmental quality. The government is opting for an integrated solution. With shrinkage she kills several birds with one stone: living in a healthy living environment, nature is spared and the climate is saved."
Nitrogen crisis influences aviation growth discussion
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 20, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")