Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Voorschoten can spend money again
Leidsch Dagblad
October 8, 2019 Tuesday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2019 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 006
Length: 508 words
Byline: Marieta Kroft
Body


  B and W warn of risks
Voorschoten After several years of significant cuts, Voorschoten councilors can now spend money again. As it currently looks, Voorschoten will have an amount of 782,000 euros left in 2020. This is evident from the 2020 budget.
The mayor and aldermen propose putting 300,000 euros in a reserve fund for the 'social domain'. If the costs for youth care, for example, turn out to be higher than estimated, the municipality will call on this fund. In addition, the council wants to make 382,000 euros available to intensify and accelerate various projects. Examples include building 300 new homes within four years, making municipal real estate more sustainable and cooperation in the Leiden region. Just before the summer recess, it seemed that Voorschoten would not be able to balance its budget. This was partly due to rising costs for youth care, uncertainty about the amount of the municipal fund, rising wage costs, the swimming pool, school housing and the energy issue. Thanks to a different method of depreciation, the municipality can now record a plus of 782,000 euros, of which 500,000 euros is structural. The municipal council recognizes this 'at first glance comfortable position', but also warns against 'uncertain developments of large (but also smaller) sizes'.
Risks
The Duivenvoorde corridor is in the top 10 of most important risks. It is still uncertain whether all land will be sold and whether they can be acquired. Furthermore, there is and remains uncertainty about the costs of youth care, the income from the municipal fund, groundwater flooding, the number of welfare recipients and the introduction of the Environmental Act. There are also concerns about the high staff turnover and vacancies among civil servants. In addition to the tightness on the labor market, the fact that there is uncertainty about the future is an additional factor for the 'Duivenvoorde Work Organisation'. The result is that more and more civil servants have to be hired, resulting in higher costs.
Taxes
Most local taxes will increase next year with the inflation adjustment of 1.4 percent. In accordance with previous agreements, the property tax will increase by less than 1 percent extra. The sewerage and waste taxes will increase by 3.4 and 5.7 percent respectively. Voorschoten households pay considerably more housing costs than the average in the Netherlands. A multi-person household will pay 1,056 euros this year, while the national average is 740 euros. Of the neighboring municipalities, only Wassenaar is even more expensive at 1151 euros. Leidschendam-Voorburg is the cheapest at 716 euros. The budget also shows that De Vink station will have 400 additional bicycle parking spaces next year to the current 720. Half will be on Leiden territory and the other half on Voorschoten soil.
Museum
There will be a study into a tourist information point in the museum on Voorstraat and the tunnel in Kniplaan will also have a mural, just as is happening these weeks at the tunnel on Houtlaan in Wassenaar.

Load Date: October 7, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")