Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Friends of Leidse Parks unite
Leidsch Dagblad
September 8, 2022 Thursday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 6
Length: 787 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


To lead
Volunteers who manage and protect Leiden's city, district and neighborhood parks join forces in a Leiden Parks Platform. The initiators sent a letter to Green Councilor Ashley North (GroenLinks) this week to propose the platform and offer it as a discussion partner and advisor for the green elaboration of the coalition agreement.
It all started last year in the head of Roek Vermeulen, from the Groen Cronesteyn Foundation. Due to the corona measures, the use of parks increased and with it the pressure on them. "We already had a kind of mini-park consultation, but it took off after an initiative to set up a petition against a plan for disc golf in Cronesteyn. It was signed so en masse that, thinking back on the massive support for the Roomburger Park, I thought: it is time to really seriously protect the parks. Because we are a bit tired of having to step into the breach every time."
Join the discussion
Huub Frencken (active for Leidse Hout and Van der Werfpark) and Eduard Groen (Van der Werfpark, Bomenbond Rijnland) joined Vermeulen and formed the Leidse Parks Platform (PLP). The news quickly spread among the voluntary residents' groups that are committed to greenery in their neighborhood and eighteen of the forty Leiden parks are now already represented. And those are the 'official' parks. In principle, any group of volunteers who manage or protect neighborhood greenery somewhere is very welcome.
It is more than sufficient to state that the plan is viable, the three concluded, who have now reported to the municipality by letter with the request to be allowed to participate in discussions and ideas about Leiden's green management from now on. "Not to act as a point of contact for everything," Frencken clarifies. "Then we would become a kind of shadow urban management. Come on, I'm an old guy. For individual park matters, these are the friends' organizations.
Anxious
What the three are mainly concerned with is exchanging information, drawing up and clarifying rules regarding green management and increasing transparency. And to set up orderly consultations, because PLP is currently far too ad hoc. “For some parks the management plans are public, for others they are not. It is sometimes difficult to bring to light. Don't be anxious about sharing information. Citizens are not questioners, but want to think along. I am firmly convinced that if you are open about it and explain it, you will no longer run from incident to incident," says Frencken. "A lot can be prevented with good information."
An example of this is the recent renovation of the Van der Werfpark, says Groen. "We only recently found out that the 2019 tree effect analysis states that 27 trees have a much lower life expectancy due to the replacement of paths. It was over fifteen years old, but according to the management plan that we only recently received, they would now have to be cut down within five to ten years. If you know this earlier, you will look differently at the need to replace the paths."
Biodiversity
Now is the perfect time to do things differently, they think. The recently appointed mayor and aldermen want to connect the Singelpark with green areas and parks further from the city center and possibly also build new parks. "These types of connecting zones are also an important point for biodiversity," says Vermeulen. "It's not just about cycling and walking paths, they are also places for animals and plants to move."
Moreover, the new Environmental Act is just around the corner, says Frencken, and that offers opportunities to better lay down the protection and use of greenery in the rules. "For this purpose, zoning plans must be adjusted and they are the only binding thing. So we would like to work with the municipal officials to figure out how to do that.”
The intention is emphatically not to combat all kinds of new developments, says Vermeulen. “Check carefully whether the location can handle it. If someone wants to organize a festival, for example, remember not to do it during the breeding season. Keep an eye on the historical values, biodiversity... that kind of thing. But a park is not just nature, it is also there for recreation. If people are no longer allowed to enjoy it, you will soon be bored."
The Leidse Parks Platform is in a start-up phase and does not yet have a website or its own contact address. Until then, Roek Vermeulen can be reached for information via info@groencronesteyn.nl
Don't be anxious about sharing information
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 7, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")