Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wassenaar: coalition with a large majority
Leidsch Dagblad
May 3, 2022 Tuesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 6
Length: 618 words
Byline: Marieta Kroft
Body


Wassenaar
 The VVD, Hart voor Wassenaar, Lokaal Wassenaar and GroenLinks in Wassenaar can best form the coalition together. This is what informant Martijn Bolkestein advises. The four parties have fifteen of the 21 seats.
Bolkestein will continue as formateur to reach a coalition agreement with these four. If it succeeds, the CDA and D66 will end up in the opposition bench, alongside PvdA and DLW.
 VVD member Bolkestein (also cousin of party prominent Frits Bolkestein) spoke as an informant initially with the VVD as the largest party and Hart voor Wassenaar as the biggest winner of the elections. Both have five seats. "The discussions were positive and provide confidence that a coalition with both parties will be successful," he writes in his final advice to the municipal council.
Preference
According to Bolkestein, most parties prefer a coalition with a broad majority. "A combination of VVD and Hart voor Wassenaar, LokaalWassenaar! and GroenLinks seems to have the preference to investigate first. It does justice to the outcome of the elections and this means that both the largest party and the two winners in the last election are part of the coalition to be formed. Moreover, this combination reflects the relationship between local and national parties in the municipal council."
Four years ago, HvW pulled the plug during advanced coalition negotiations and opted for the opposition. List leader Henri Hendrickx of HvW does not expect a repeat of history. “The discussions with the VVD went well. I have also been told by many of our voters that we must now take our responsibility by joining the coalition."
Hendrickx is pleasantly surprised by Bolkestein's final advice. “This is exactly what we wanted. We wanted a second strong local party. Including Lokaal Wassenaar, we already count thirteen of the 21 seats. Moreover, we did not want to be held hostage by a third party, which is why there is a fourth party. We have quite a few similarities with GroenLinks."
VVD party leader Gerbrand Nijman also thinks the four parties are 'a logical choice'. "It should not be the case that the four of us decide everything for the next four years because we have a large majority. We do want to leave room for social and political debate. That is why we are now making an outline coalition agreement.”
Aldermen
While Wassenaar had five councilors for three days a week in the past four years, in the coming period preference will be given to full-timers who live in Wassenaar. "In principle, three councilors should be enough, but we can also agree to four," says Nijman. "We have a lot coming our way, such as the introduction of the Environmental Act."
The VVD nominates the current traffic councilor Caroline Klaver for a new period. The others are not yet announcing their names. HvW has three candidates. Who it will be depends on the portfolio. Hendrickx hopes for the 'traffic' portfolio.
LW also has several candidates. In any case, their current councilor Inge Zweerts de Jong is quitting. "I was available as a director for a maximum of two terms," ​​she explains. “Three is too long and not good for the board. That is why I was not a party leader or was not on the list."
Summer break
It could take another two months before the new council is finalized. Hendrickx is aiming for 'before the summer recess at the latest'. “The mayor hopes that there will be a new council on June 10. I am careful.'' Nijman does not mention any time at all. “We still have some nuts to crack. We aim for quality and stable management and not for rush work.”
VVD, GroenLinks Hart voor and Lokaal Wassenaar together
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 2, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")