Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Construction fees still very uneven
Friesch Dagblad
August 25, 2021 Wednesday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 402 words
Byline: Jan Ybema
Highlight: The costs for (re)building permits have risen again this year, by about 3 percent. Despite repeated calls from the Homeowners Association, the differences between municipalities remain large.
Body


It goes in all directions and it is impossible to explain to buyers and homeowners
Leeuwarden Frisians who want to have a new-build home built will spend hundreds of euros more on fees in some municipalities this year than in 2020. The costs for applying for a permit for a minor renovation also increased in many municipalities, according to figures from the Association. Home.
For the construction of a new-build home, the buyer must pay construction fees. With construction costs of 170,000 euros, a resident of Noardeast-Fryslân or Dantumadiel will pay almost a thousand euros more in fees this year than in 2020. That is a cost increase of about a quarter in one year. The fees for such a new-build home also rose sharply in the municipalities of Opsterland, Leeuwarden and Súdwest-Fryslân.
Anyone who does minor renovations to the front or side of the house must apply for a permit, which costs money. The fees for these minor renovations have also increased the most in Noardeast-Fryslân and Dantumadiel. They became more than a quarter more expensive there in one year. And Leeuwarden, Súdwest-Fryslân and Opsterland are asking a few tens of euros more this year than in 2020. In other municipalities the differences are smaller or the rates have remained the same.
Terschelling
Taxes have been going up for some time now. Last year, the Eigen Huis Association recorded a national increase of 2.4 percent compared to 2019, this year homeowners will pay an average of 3 percent more than in 2020.
The differences between municipalities remain significant. Terschellingers spend more than four times as much on fees for a minor renovation as residents of Ameland, Vlieland, Smallingerland and Ooststellingwerf. Only in Veenendaal is a permit for a minor renovation even more expensive than on Terschelling.
The fees for a new-build house with construction costs of 170,000 euros are more than twice as high in the Stellingwerfs as in Harlingen. And Terschelling is twice as expensive as the Stellingwerfs. At this point, the Wadden Island is, just like last year, the most expensive municipality in the whole of the Netherlands.
Can't explain
The Homeowners Association is not happy with the major differences. "It really goes in all directions and it cannot be explained to buyers and homeowners," says general manager Cindy Kremer. She calls on the cabinet to tackle the rate differences between municipalities when the new Environmental Act is introduced on July 1. .

Load Date: August 24, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")