Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wassenaarseslag must remain a family beach; beach vision No mass tourism, possibly open in winter
Leidsch Dagblad
April 26, 2024 Friday
City


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 11
Length: 568 words
Byline: Paul van der Kooij
Body


beach vision No mass tourism, possibly open in winter
Should the beach of Wassenaarseslag also have places where you can enjoy something all year round, such as in neighboring municipalities such as Katwijk and Scheveningen? And can associations possibly play a role in this? It is one of the matters that the municipality will investigate in the coming months.
Wassenaar
The city council made 50,000 euros available on Tuesday evening to draw up a 'beach vision'. It shouldn't get too wild. For example, beach councilor Laurens van Doeveren received broad support for the view that it should remain a small-scale family beach. So no mass tourism, heavily motorized water sports and large-scale festivals.
"We have a very simple vision of the beach," Hart reported for Wassenaar leader Henri Hendrickx. “Go and have a look there. Take some photos and write below: it will look the same in ten years' time. This is a family beach; this is the Wassenaar beach.”
In order to make that wish come true, the largest opposition party wanted to stipulate in advance that the number of parking spaces and catering facilities should not grow and the access road to the beach should not be widened. Nor should adjustments via the Environmental Act be necessary.
The party was unable to come up with such amendments. Some were even strongly discouraged. For example, the councilor reported that the Environmental Act will be necessary to make more possible in the field of water sports, in terms of expansions and new concepts. And that would be important to get local youth to exercise more. For example, various associations now have long waiting lists.
Public transport
Such expansions are only possible if something is done about the utilities. They are now insufficient, whether it concerns (fire) water or electricity. B and W also want to do something in the field of transport. This must be more sustainable in the protected dune area. They also want less parking pressure at peak times.
The council program states the wish that Wassenaarseslag will again be accessible by public transport. And in a committee meeting, the CDA came up with a variant that may be more feasible. It concerns an electric bus that commutes between the village and the beach, connected to public transport.
Hendrickx then caused a stir with the comment that, during the months that he was alderman, he attended a presentation of plans for a hotel on the site of the large De Kuil parking lot. In the council meeting, the current councilor emphasized that his council is 'not working on a hotel on the Wassenaarseslag': "We don't have to worry about that either. It is also not included in the starting vision for the beach vision.'' However, he does look at how parking can be 'priced', to attract people where possible and to spread it where necessary.
The council wants to have the beach vision available in November. The municipality can then consult with beach tent owners about extending their contracts. That order would be important because if the council has certain wishes with the beach, for example opening it in winter, that would also be possible.
"Large parts of the photos you take now will remain the same in the coming years," the councilor concluded. "But something will certainly change on the beach."
Take some photos and write below: what it will look like in ten years' time
just like that
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 25, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")