Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=What will 2024 bring us? An overview
Friesch Dagblad
January 6, 2024 Saturday


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 1717 words
Byline: From our Wykein editorial staff
Highlight: A new, most likely right-wing cabinet, fifty years of Church Balance Action, the Pope
a guest in Belgium and 'our' Joost Klein who represents the Netherlands at Eurovision
Eurovision Song Contest in Sweden. That and much more is about to happen in 2024. A selection.
Body


Leap year 2024 is a leap year. And so the year has 366 days, with an extra day on February 29. This day serves as a correction of the calendar year to the tropical year. It takes Earth 365 days and about six hours to orbit the sun. By adding a date every four years, the calendar gets back in line with the Earth. If we don't do that, the seasons will shift compared to the calendar year. The beginning of spring would occur about 24 days earlier every hundred years.
Minimum wage With effect from 1 January, the statutory minimum monthly wage will be adjusted to a statutory minimum hourly wage. This means that every employee who earns the statutory minimum wage receives the same wage for the same number of hours worked. It increases by 3.75 percent to 13.27 euros per hour.
Environmental Act The Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, 2024. This new law combines 26 separate laws and numerous rules into one new one. This concerns rules for, among other things, renovations in and around the home, but also for matters in the field of the environment, nature and historic preservation. From now on, citizens can check at the digital Environment Desk whether a permit is required.
Church Balance Action Church Balance has been around for fifty years. Kerkbalans is an initiative of various denominations in which local church communities and parishes, with the help of thousands of volunteers, request a financial contribution from their church members. Church Balance Campaign is from January 13 to 27.
De Zonnebloem In 2024, National Association De Zonnebloem will celebrate its 75th anniversary. The anniversary year kicks off on January 17. The theme of the program is 'Unlimited Progress Together'. The anniversary year will end on December 7, 2024, on Volunteer Day. Details of local, regional and national activities will be announced in due course. Also keep an eye on Facebook: www.facebook.com/ZonnebloemValkenswaard.
Anniversary City Theater De Harmonie in Leeuwarden is celebrating its 150th anniversary. This will be celebrated with a program with the theme 'Meeting and connection'. The kick-off is in January with an unveiling of Spiegelingen, a work by video artist Frouke ten Velde that is projected on the facade of the city theater. Ira Judkovskaya is artistic coordinator of the anniversary program.
Anniversary show of the Royal Frisian Horse Studbook Association (KFPS) will be celebrating its 145th anniversary in January with a theater show in which the Frisian horse plays a starring role. The Faderpaard Foundation, also responsible for Faderpaard (2014) and De Stormruiter (2018), organizes the show that can be seen on January 10, 11 and 12. Of course, these days are also the annual stallion inspection.
Elections Elections are taking place in many countries this year. For example, there will be presidential elections in Taiwan on January 13. The obvious winner is Vice President Lai Ching-te, who is strongly against rapprochement with China. There will be elections in Russia from March 15 to 17. President Putin is running for a fifth term. In April, nearly one billion Indians will go to the polls to determine whether Prime Minister Narenda Modi and his nationalist BJP party will win a third term. There will be elections in South Africa on May 8 and the British will also elect a new parliament this year, although the exact date has not yet been determined. On November 5, Americans will go to the polls. The big question there is: will it be Biden or Trump?
Centenary Christian brass band Pro Rege from Heerenveen is celebrating its centenary and will celebrate this milestone together with the Frysk Youth Orchestra during a gala concert on May 11 in the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam. For those who don't want to go so far from home, there will be an anniversary concert in their own home on March 16: De Rinkelbom in Heerenveen.
Province of Fryslân The Provincial Council will discuss new policy in March to limit the damage caused by geese. The new language and cultural policy is on the agenda in May and June. The focus of the political year seems to be in the second half. It is then expected that there will be a baseline measurement of the condition of the Frisian soil and a decision will be made on adjustments to policy regarding solar and wind projects. There will also be a policy letter on the future of agriculture and an evaluation of the effect of measures to improve water quality is expected. Preparations for the Lely line will also be discussed.
The Passion Zeist in Utrecht is the host city for the fourteenth edition of The Passion, on March 28 (Maundy Thursday). The full cast of The Passion 2024 will be announced early this year. Peter Kuipers, chairman of KRO-NCRV, is looking forward to the event of connection and reflection: 'In these times of war and polarization, the Easter story we tell in The Passion seems increasingly urgent. The message of Jesus is timeless: treat others as you would like to be treated, have confidence and exclude no one.'
Joost Klein Joost Klein, who grew up in Stiens and Britsum, will represent the Netherlands in the Eurovision Song Contest in Malmö, Sweden in May. The rapper is a huge source of inspiration for the youth, deputy Sijbe Knol emphasized at the announcement. “Joost is a fantastic export product for our province. Against will and thanks, because that was never his intention. It all comes from within himself. That's the beautiful thing about this whole story." Klein lost both his parents as a teenager. On his father's advice, he started writing, which led to making music and a breakthrough on YouTube. This year the Frisian scored a hit in Germany with Friesenjung, he performed at Lowlands and gave two sold-out concerts in November, called Joost Klein, Droom Groot. The 68th edition of the Eurovision Song Contest is from May 7 to 11 in the Malmö Arena.
Fanfare The Frisian theater company Tryater will present the second and third parts of its fanfare trilogy this year. From February 29 to March 30, living room performances will be given throughout the province under the name Thúsblaze. The audience is introduced to one member of the brass band in each performance. The final part of the triptych is a large-scale location performance called Fanfare. It will take place from May 25 to June 22 at the Easterlittens ice rink.
Rescue company The Royal Dutch Rescue Company (KNRM) will celebrate its bicentennial on November 11. The anniversary, which kicked off on November 11 last year, is celebrated throughout the year with all kinds of activities and campaigns. For example, the anniversary song What if the storm comes will be released on January 12. In February, an exhibition about 200 years of KNRM will open in twelve maritime museums. The podcast series Rescuers at Sea will be launched on March 18. And on May 25, Lifeboat Day will take place at all 45 KNRM rescue stations.
Keukenhof People from all over the world come to the Keukenhof in Lisse every year. The exhibition of spring-flowering flower bulbs takes place for the 75th time this year. The Keukenhof opens on March 21, the first day of spring, and closes its doors on May 12.
New cabinet When the formation is a fact, it is hard to see, but 2024 should bring us a new cabinet. With 37 seats in the House of Representatives, the PVV is currently the largest party in our country. Will Geert Wilders be able to form a coalition with others? Which parties will join? NSC, BBB and/or the VVD? A right-wing cabinet has seemed obvious since the House of Representatives elections of November 22, but the necessary discussions will still have to take place before a coalition agreement is signed.
PKN From an ecclesiastical point of view, May 1, 2024 is an important date. Then the Protestant Church in the Netherlands will have existed for twenty years. Although the decision to join the PKN was already taken on December 12, 2003 in Utrecht (by the three separate churches), it was official on May 1, 2004.
Tsjerkepaad From July 6 to September 14, about 250 churches in Fryslân will open their doors on Saturdays during Tsjerkepaad. This year's theme is 'Rounds around the Churches'. The churches are open 'to everyone who appreciates heritage, art, silence, encounters, peace or meditation'. The website tsjerkepaad.nl will provide an overview of which churches are open when exactly and also whether additional activities will take place, such as music, exhibition or lecture.
Pope's visit Pope Francis is visiting Belgium this year in connection with the 600th anniversary of the Catholic University of Leuven. It is the first time in almost thirty years that a pope will visit the Low Countries. The highest cleric of the Roman Catholic Church has not yet mentioned a date.
Notre-Dame In April 2019, a fire broke out in Notre-Dame in Paris. The spire and roof, among other things, were destroyed. In recent years, a lot of work has been done to rebuild the cathedral. The reopening is scheduled for December 8.
European elections The elections for the European Parliament will be held from 6 to 9 June. It is the tenth time that parliament has been directly elected. The big question is whether the populist right, which is on the rise everywhere in the EU, will keep the wind in its sails. Main theme for the elections: immigration.
European Football Championship When will the Dutch national team become champions again? This year, the Dutch team has a chance during the European Football Championship, which will take place in Germany from June 14 to July 14. The Dutch team is in group D, together with France, Austria and a country that still has to qualify through the play-offs. The first match of the Dutch national team is on June 16 at 3 p.m. in Hamburg.
Summer Games The 2024 Summer Olympics will be held in Paris from July 26 to August 11. Approximately 10,500 athletes from 206 countries will participate in 28 sports. Newly added sport this edition is break dancing.
State pension age The state pension age will be increased to 67 years in 2024. In 2023 that was 66 years and 10 months.
Amsterdam 750 On October 27, 2025, Amsterdam will celebrate its 750th anniversary. The festive kick-off of this anniversary year will be on October 27, 2024. The love for the city of Amsterdam will be celebrated with a big show in the Ziggo Dome. Including the Metropole Orchestra and Zo! Gospel Choir participate in this concert. The anniversary festivities will last until the actual anniversary in 2025.
Link to PDF

Load Date: January 5, 2024, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")