Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Water boards can be a model for new 'wind boards'
NRC.NEXT
July 9, 2019 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 18
Length: 594 words
Byline: Wouter van Dieren
Body


ABSTRACT
A proven governance model is available to tame the chaos and protests around wind farms, writes Wouter van Dieren.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Sabotage of wind farms under construction is starting to become the rule, not only in Groningen. In Friesland there is broad support for the 'No room for wind turbines' movement and in other provinces plans are also predictably stalling.
The Hague has handed over control to Regional Energy Strategies (RES), which must make concrete plans in the context of the Climate Agreement. In fact, they have difficulty maneuvering between all the angry citizens and the obstacles in the landscape that can be as high as 200 meters.
In 1974, 18-year-old Henk Lagerweij watched a heavy storm and decided to put those powers to good use. He became a Dutch windmill pioneer. In 1996, Theo Potma, founder of the current environmental consultancy firm CE Delft, drew the first sketches of a wind turbine with six rotors on the side arms of high-voltage pylons. Lagerweij would also build one. His company became the first major producer of turbines, but went bankrupt. The Beek Committee, led by WRR member Wiero Beek, negotiated with the energy sector for a decade about a fair feed-in price for wind energy, but when that deal was concluded it was too late. What failed here grew in Denmark: a large wind sector. Beek advised with foresight to primarily install turbines in the sea; on land the resistance would be too great.
In his book Münchausen in de Noordzee, energy expert Jan Paul van Soest writes that the 'permit period' between plan and the first megawatt is usually twelve years. The delay for the currently planned wind farms is now four to six years, but due to the emerging sabotage, this will soon be much longer.
The wind plans are said to represent the green energy revolution, good for the climate and as many as 100,000 households. But in Groningen and the Wieringermeer - and not only there - much of that electricity goes to large consumers, such as Google's data center (in the Eemshaven). And the profit goes to those who are handy with subsidies, to farmers who sell a hectare of arable land to the company, while the rest of the population is saddled with a spoiled landscape.
The national government is making a big mistake by pushing through these plans on the basis of outdated legislation and a policy of looking away, which involves constantly reinventing the wheel, whether it concerns the Environmental Act, the National Project Regulations or the Spatial Planning Act. And the road to the Council of State for appeal procedures is always wide open.
In the Wieringermeer, residents want to be able to buy bonds in their own turbine (which supplies cheap energy), and there is also resistance to this 'Polder mill'.
In the Middle Ages, farmers and administrators discovered that a new layer of government was needed to manage the common domain of water through dikes and pumping stations. This became the water boards, which have since stabilized, depoliticized and financed this domain, with benefits and successes for all. In light of the current chaos surrounding the design of wind farms, this idea deserves to be followed in the form of wind boards. For each wind farm there is a board with local authorities, levies and distribution of benefits and costs. This will benefit the domain of the landscape and the horizon. The blueprint is there.
Wouter van Dieren is an environmental expert, was a member of the Beek committee and was a board member of CE-Delft.
Link to PDF

Load Date: July 8, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")