Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Water vision comes later; regulations City council takes its time for an overarching plan and fossil sailing ban
Leidsch Dagblad
April 3, 2024 Wednesday
City


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 576 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


regulations City council takes its time for an overarching plan and fossil sailing ban
In the spring of 2025, there will not yet be a comprehensive vision for the future use of Leiden waters, as the municipal council requested last year. This is evident from a letter from the mayor and aldermen.
To lead
Commercial shipping, loading and unloading locations, tourism, pleasure boating, history, ecology, relaxation, biodiversity and climate change... The interests on and around the water have been increasing for years and are regularly conflicting.
The city council therefore urges the mayor and aldermen to write an overarching vision stating how the city will deal with this. The council passed a motion on this in both 2022 and 2023.
The last time there was also a date: such an 'integral water vision' should be ready by the second quarter of 2025 at the latest. That won't work, says the letter from the council. In any case, because it is a lot of work and the municipal council should have reserved money for it, because no agreements have been made about it in the current coalition agreement.
environmental code
In addition, the new Environmental Act has come into effect this year, full of new rules and regulations regarding the use of space. The city council is currently adapting existing rules and visions and believes it is more logical to include a new water vision. The municipality also wants to consult the city about this. B and W expect that 'the main lines' will have been worked out by the end of next year.
It remains unclear when Leiden will ban the use of fossil fuels on the water. The municipal council itself last removed the target year of 2030 from the request to draw up a step-by-step plan for this and the B and W now also do not provide a definitive answer. They only write that they want to do it 'in close cooperation' with the regional municipalities, because many pleasure boaters in the city have their home port there.
Starting point
Although the letter is not very concrete and the requested date is not met, D66 councilor IJsbrand Olthoff - one of the champions of the water vision - is quite pleased with it. The council also writes that, like the council, it wants to provide clarity about the rules on and around the water, and states that there are opportunities in the fight against climate change. "Of course I want it faster, but I also understand that they want to tie in with existing policy," says Olthoff. “For me this is a starting point, it is now formally on my mind. Perhaps in two years we can throw an alderman, manpower and budget at it and include it in the council program."
Fossil sailing ban
Disappointment prevails among the Party for the Animals, the driving force behind the fossil sailing ban. "I think we have to hurry, the climate cannot wait. But we can read all kinds of things into it, so I continue to hope that there will be a plan of action soon. We will certainly keep a finger on the pulse," says party leader Lianne Raat.
As far as she is concerned, regional pleasure boating is not decisive. “I don't agree with this collaboration with the regional municipalities at all. We will not do that with the zero emission zone that will come into effect on land next year. There has probably been contact about it, but that's just what we do. It is very nice to take it into account, but we are navigating our own waters.”
I think we have to hurry, the climate cannot wait
Lianne Raat
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 2, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")