Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=What will the new environmental regulations mean for the Frisian landscape?
Friesch Dagblad
May 14, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 631 words
Byline: Jan Ybema
Highlight: Leeuwarden The Environmental Act will come into effect next year. The States will soon decide on the Environmental Regulation. What will that mean?
Body


From next year, no fewer than 26 laws on space, soil, water, air, noise, nature, built environment, infrastructure and historic preservation will be incorporated into that one, already infamous new law: the Environmental Act. The introduction has already been postponed several times due to ICT problems, among other things, but the new law must actually come into effect from 1 January 2023. The intention is that procedures will be shortened and municipalities will have more influence on the design of the environment. At the same time as the law, a provincial Environmental Regulation will come into force in Fryslân. This replaces, among other things, the current Romte Regulation. Below is an overview of a number of notable changes.
Municipalities are given more freedom to build houses and establish businesses. They no longer have to ask the province for approval for a residential plan, a business or office park plan. Housing and activity must fit within the regional housing agreements with the province. Within this, municipalities have a lot of room for their own interpretation. Contractor companies and other agricultural auxiliary companies will soon also be allowed to be established in new locations in rural areas with an exemption. Agricultural mechanization companies with a showroom may also be located in a location that does not correspond to the existing built-up area with an exemption.
Intensive livestock farms will soon be allowed to expand further, namely to a building plot of two hectares. This concerns, for example, pig, chicken or veal farms, cattle fattening farms or non-land-based goat and sheep farms. Under the current regulation, such companies are in principle not allowed to expand further than one and a half hectares, unless they improve animal welfare or sustainability or reduce environmental impact. Contributions to the circular economy and employment may soon also be grounds for allowing expansions of more than two hectares.
Non-agricultural companies in rural areas are now only allowed to grow up to a maximum of 50 percent if it fits well within the landscape and cultural history. That restriction will soon no longer be there. Contracting companies and other so-called agricultural auxiliary companies may even expand by more than 50 percent if this contributes to, for example, energy transition, circular economy or employment.
Small-scale campsites will soon be able to expand to a maximum of 35 pitches. Now no more than 25 places are allowed. Hikers' cabins may also become larger and more luxurious. Furthermore, it is allowed to camp at small campsites in winter.
There will be more freedom to allow large advertising masts. Currently, advertising masts higher than six meters are prohibited in rural areas and along motorways. The new regulation only states that masts must fit in with existing urban areas 'as much as possible' and must 'match the environmental qualities'. The intention is for municipalities to set limits on the maximum height.
More developments will soon be possible in NNN nature reserves. An intervention can then be permitted if it is in the 'public interest'. Now that still has to be a 'major public interest'. This means that, under certain conditions, recreational developments will also be permitted in NNN areas. In principle, interventions may not have any 'adverse consequences' for nature. Compensation is then necessary. Now this only applies to 'significant adverse effects'. That seems like a legal tightening, but the province does not like that. The proposal is to 'hold that there are only 'adverse consequences' if there are 'significant adverse effects'.'
Members of Parliament will discuss the Environmental Regulation on Wednesday. They will make a decision about it a week later.
Link to PDF

Load Date: May 13, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")