Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=What will 2022 bring?
Friesch Dagblad
January 8, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 2074 words
Byline: from our Wykein editorial staff ANP, FD, Shutterstock
Highlight: Traditionally, the Friesch Dagblad takes a look at the agendas and calendars of companies, organizations, institutions and government bodies. What are they doing and what do they surprise us with or bother us with? Grab your agenda.
Body


January is the month of good intentions. Will you be able to keep them up this year? Traditionally, thousands of Dutch people put away the corkscrew and bottle opener; they try not to drink alcohol for a month. Internationally known as Dry January, but in the Netherlands all the facts and support can be found on ikpas.nl.
The Friesch Dagblad is entering its one hundred and twentieth year. The newspaper was founded in 1903.
The name Fryslân for this province is twenty-five years old this year. On January 1, 1997, the province surrendered the name Friesland and from that day onwards the Frisian variant has been used as the official name. Of the 54 members of parliament, 43 voted in favor of the name change.
Glass shines more than usual this year; the United Nations has declared 2022 the International Year of Glass. From fiber optic (the backbone of the internet) to bottles (indispensable for Covid vaccines), from beautiful archaeological and artistic artefacts to solar panels and wind turbine blade amplifiers: their applications are centuries old but still innovative.
Blackbirds can also enjoy special interest. This year the bird has been declared the Year of the Blackbird by Bird Protection Netherlands and Sovon Bird Research Netherlands. It is the country's most numerous breeding bird, but almost a third have disappeared since 2016. Cause unknown.
The Environmental Act has come into force. It has been many years in the making and there has been a lot to do. The law must simplify and merge a tangle of rules for spatial development. It should therefore become easier to make plans and obtain a permit for them, and at the same time the public space should be better protected. Whether this will work out in practice is being followed with suspicion.
This year, the Fryslân Nature Museum bears the title of most child-friendly museum in the province. For the ninth time in a row, by the way, so not new. For the first time under the staff of new director Froukje Hernamdt. Nationally, the Discovery Museum in Kerkrade scores the highest and is therefore Kidsproof Museum 2022.
The Eleven Cities Tour 'celebrates' the last time it was held twenty-five years ago, on January 4. Chairman Henk Kroes pronounced it okay and the same day all hotel rooms in Fryslân were occupied.
Omroep Ongehoord Nederland (ON) and Omroep Zwart are allowed to broadcast programs on the public broadcaster for the first time. Minister Slob (media) reluctantly gave permission, because the Dutch Media Authority, the Council for Culture and the NPO fear that ON could cause major damage to the system; it structurally disqualifies NOS as an independent news service. WNL, HUMAN and PowNed have completed their probationary period: they are formally joining the public system.
The two large secondary vocational training courses in Leeuwarden Friese Poort and Friesland College are taking a blow to their proposed merger. The question is whether or not to fully merge. In any case, there will be much closer cooperation in the future.
The Winter Olympics start on February 4 in China. Curling, ice hockey, figure skating, speed skating and short track speed skating are organized in Central Beijing, and among the snow sports, snowboard big air and freestyle skiing big air are on the programme. In Yanqing, 80 kilometers northwest of Beijing, alpine skiing, bobsleigh, skeleton and tobogganing are on the program. A little further away is Zhangjiakou and there are the rest of the snowboard and freestyle skiing events, plus biathlon, cross-country skiing, ski jumping and the Nordic combined.
Car of the Year is Cupra Born, Ford Mustang Mach-E, Hyundai Ioniq 5, Kia EV6, Peugeot 308, Renault Mégane E-Tech or Skoda Enyaq iV. On February 28, 61 jury members from 23 European countries will choose this most coveted title in the automotive industry.
SC Cambuur can drive the first pile for the new stadium on the west side of the city. A long history: in June 2009, the first concrete plans for a new stadium were presented to the municipality. It is expected that fans will be able to watch the first match from the four new, separate stands in 2023.
Municipal elections are held on March 16 in most of the 345 municipalities in the Netherlands. Thirty years ago, the Netherlands still consisted of 774 municipalities. The size of a municipal council depends on the number of inhabitants and varies from nine to forty-five members. The number of council members is always odd, so that a vote does not get stuck.
Gas extraction under the Wadden Sea: should we do that from Ternaard or not? The government will make a final decision this spring. At the end of last year, Parliament ordered an investigation by an independent party into the possibility of reversing the permit. After all, the Wadden Sea is a World Heritage site and UNESCO was not amused by the plans.
Citizens' Initiative Day is celebrated in April with the We do it together! Festival. Private individuals and organizations from all over the Netherlands come together to share their good experiences with citizen initiatives. In 2021 and 2020 it was canceled due to corona.
France elects a president. The first round of voting will take place on April 10, followed by a second round on April 24. Extremely exciting because the right is advancing. Will Emmanuel Macron stay in place or will it be the right-wing Marine le Pen? Or will she in turn be ousted by the far-right French commentator Éric Zemmour, who has skyrocketed in the polls?
The Floriade opens its gates on April 14. For six months, there will be plenty to see in this area, which has been worked on for years. And this mainly concerns inventions and solutions from innovators at home and abroad that make our cities more fun, more beautiful and more sustainable.
His Majesty the King will attend the celebration of King's Day in Maastricht, capital of the province of Limburg, on Wednesday, April 27, with members of the Royal Family. In 2020, the celebration of King's Day would also take place in Maastricht. Due to the measures to combat the coronavirus, the festivities could not take place.
Expedition Next will land in Franeker on May 6. The former university city will then host a scientific festival for children. Researchers, knowledge institutions and museums from all over the country are participating. Mini lectures, workshops, guided tours, sports: everything to familiarize children with what research institutions and laboratories do. The first Expedition took place in Rotterdam in 2019. It was also the last, because the festival was canceled in 2020 and 2021 due to corona.
Arcadia determines the cultural life in Fryslân for a hundred days. From May 7 to August 7, this is the continuation of the Cultural Capital, and the organization LF2018 aims to make it a triennial festival where the future of society, landscape and heritage are put in the spotlight. From a walking forest in Leeuwarden to an international art exhibition in Oranjewoud, and of course with dozens of projects and events in the villages and neighborhoods.
Try another job? Exchange Week starts for the tenth time on May 30. Until June 3, employees can exchange for a day or part of the day with an employee from another company or organization in Fryslân. It doesn't matter what profession you have or want to try. Last year, the exchange week took place online and 1,900 employees from 55 institutions took a look behind the scenes at someone else.
The Protestant Church will receive a report in June with the results of a six-month study into sexism in the church. Nine in ten female pastors suffer from this, according to research by the Nederlands Dagblad last year.
The parliamentary inquiry into gas extraction will start in June with public hearings. The committee, which was installed in February last year, is led by chairman Ton van der Lee. The committee's report is expected at the beginning of 2023, on two questions: how have the decision-making processes regarding extraction, damage settlement and the reinforcement operation taken place since 1959? What were the effects, what were the interests and considerations and how were the people of Groningen dealt with?
The town hall in Kollum is going up for sale. It should have a new owner by mid-2023 at the latest. The public sale procedure will start in June 2022. It's the second attempt; in 2020 the process was stopped because it was organized in a messy manner.
The hypersensitive James Webb telescope is expected to transmit its first images to the mission control center in Baltimore around this time. The Webb was launched in December to search for (infrared) images of the very first stars and galaxies in the universe.
Denmark is the starting country of this year's Tour de France. A first. On Friday, July 1, there will be an individual time trial of thirteen kilometers in the capital Copenhagen. Then two more stages for the sprinters. A 'foreign' Tour start has taken place more often, for example in Brussels (2019), Düsseldorf (2017), Utrecht (2015), Leeds (2014) and Rotterdam (2010).
Legally grown cannabis can be sold in the second half of the year. Seven designated growers received permission for this from Minister Grapperhaus of Justice in November. The trial with this 'state cannabis' will last four years.
Festival Welcome to the Village leaves its regular site De Groene Ster for the city center of Leeuwarden on a one-off basis, to celebrate its tenth edition there on July 15, 16 and 17. A new area will then be sought to realize the ambition of a fully sustainable festival.
The trial over MH17 will be completed with a verdict in the second half of this year. The Public Prosecution Service has demanded life sentences for three Russians and a Ukrainian. They are held responsible for the air disaster on July 17, 2014, in which all 298 people on board, including many Dutch people, died.
Meindert Tjoelker was murdered twenty-five years ago on the night of September 12 to 13 in the city center of Leeuwarden after a night out. This led to much national outrage, a silent march, a minute's silence and a social discussion about 'senseless violence'.
De Tocht is a musical about the Elfstedentocht, composed by Sytse Broersma and Ad van Dijk, which will premiere in October, 1460 spectators per performance can watch 2000 square meters of ice. The aim: now that the real Tour has become such a rarity, to allow new generations to experience something of the Eleven Cities feeling.
The next United Nations climate summit will take place in Egypt from November 7 to 18. This was decided at COP26, the climate summit held in Glasgow last year. COP27, which stands for Conference of the Parties, will be held in the Red Sea resort of Sharm El-Sheikh.
The controversial Football World Cup starts on November 18 in Qatar. The mini-oil state won against favorite candidates such as Australia, Japan and the United States. A number of FIFA bosses have been convicted of receiving sums of money in exchange for their votes. The country was prepared to invest more than 150 billion euros in the construction of a stadium, accommodations and infrastructure. It is estimated that thousands of workers died due to poor working conditions.
The global economy will have grown slightly less rapidly at the end of this year than in 2021, if the prediction made by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) at the end of 2021 comes true. These are wobbly predictions, influenced by numerous factors. For example, the arrival of the omikron variant reduced 0.1 percent from the 5.7 percent expected in November for 2021. The think tank kept the forecast for the global economy for 2022 the same at that time: 4.5 percent.
Mugs and cups are a must in the office after New Year's Eve, because as of January 1, 2023, disposable coffee cups will be banned in the workplace. Every year, 19 million are thrown away after one use. Next year will be the last year that plastic packaging for taking ready-made food will be provided free of charge, so that will also be prohibited.
Throwing away cans is also over at the end of the year. From December 31, 2022, there will be a 15 cent deposit, in the hope of being able to collect at least 90 percent separately. Now around 150 million are thrown away every year.
Link to PDF

Load Date: January 7, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")