Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Little joy about new Environmental Act
de Volkskrant
April 23, 2024 Tuesday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 18, 19
Length: 1906 words
Byline: JURRE VAN DEN BERG
Highlight: At the beginning of this year, the new Environmental Act came into effect. The promise: smoother permitting, more participation for involved citizens. In Groningen, which has the national scoop, they don't notice much of it yet. 'Sounding board group is a very vague term'.
Body


Spatial planning
"You could easily establish a catering industry in that old silo," says Rein Bish, pointing to the former grain warehouse. The north bank of the Eemskanaal, which he cycles along, is a fringed edge of the city. The area around the monumental chimney of a former car tire factory is a collection of abandoned factory buildings and tall grass.

Spurred by the housing shortage, the municipality of Groningen wants to transform the area into 'a unique part of the city', a banner promises: Stadshavens, a green, car-free new-build district with 3,300 homes. The neighborhood association is quite pleased with the plans, says chairman Bish. 'There is a lot of potential.'

Stadshavens also has a national first. If the municipal council adopts the amendment to the environmental plan for the new district in May, it will be the first major plan in the Netherlands under the new law.

After a period of ten years, the new Environmental Act came into effect on January 1. This replaces 26 laws and hundreds of spatial planning regulations. An improvement? "I still have to see it," says spatial planning councilor Rik van Niejenhuis (PvdA) hesitantly.

The law must strike a balance between using and protecting space that is becoming increasingly scarce. According to the councilor, this is the core of the challenge that the Netherlands is now facing. 'We actually have to use every square meter two or three times.'

The run-up was quite difficult. After the announcement in 2013, there was talk of the biggest change in the law since the Second World War. But it turned out to be so drastic that the operation had to be postponed five times. Because of the legal complexity, but especially because the new Digital System for the Environment Act (DSO) was not yet in order. The government's experiences with large ICT projects were not very positive.

But this year, 2024, the time had come. Although the euphoria from earlier has now been tempered. 'A blessing for humanity', Minister of the Interior Hugo de Jonge called the law two years ago. Meanwhile, there are also profit warnings: 'ripples' will appear and 'fires' will have to be extinguished.

In December, an avalanche of dozens of permit applications arrived at Groningen city hall under the old familiar regime. That reservoir must first be removed. In addition, civil servants are still struggling with the language and concepts of the Environmental Act. "It's quite technical," Van Niejenhuis says euphemistically. 'But the fact that a zoning plan is now called an environmental plan makes no world of difference.' The biggest change for the municipality is that the new law leaves much less time to complete the procedures. Terms have been shortened from 26 to 8 weeks. It also often frustrates the councilor that in the Netherlands it can take five to ten years before a shovel goes into the ground. 'But faster and more carefully, that sometimes goes together.'

An important idea behind the Environmental Act is that stakeholders should be involved in plans as early as possible - in all linguistic variations. And so local residents such as Rein Bish, who was concerned about a planned residential tower on the parking lot of the former blood bank behind his house, were allowed to take part in a 'sounding board group' in 2020. The 'participation plan' (eleven pages) that followed the 'municipal participation report' mentions 'discussions with various stakeholders' and a 'weekly walk-in consultation hour'.

“We like to think along,” says Jaap de Graaf, secretary of the residents' organization Oosterparkwijk. 'It is understandable that they want to build here. We are not against that at all.' It was clear to him from the start: they are not going to build single-family homes at such a location near the city center. 'With the current housing shortage, it makes sense to go up.'

But they have their reservations. For example, with the maximum building height of nine floors, compared to the modest skipper's houses on the Damsterdiep. About the parking policy, of course. And about the fate of the Concrete Forest: once a finishing place and gathering place for vagrants and junkies, now a free port in the city, where city nomads live in their caravans and vans in wild greenery. They largely have to make way.

These are all topics that local residents have intensively thought about and discussed over the past four years. But expressed in a number, this is the outcome: the approximately two hundred suggestions and objections that local residents submitted through views were all rejected.

'All that talk about participation', Bish concludes with disappointment, 'turns out to be a big fuss.'

'Sounding board group is a very vague term,' says De Graaf. 'And it has remained very vague.' During all those meetings, it was actually only about the process, never about the content of the plans, says urban planner Koos Haarsma, who lives across the Eemskanaal. The municipality formed a private company with the project developers involved. 'The operating plan had already been signed when the consultation had yet to start.'

Because of the Concrete Forest, Paul Kusters also became involved, on behalf of nature organization IVN. According to Kusters, the fact that the planned green Haven Park is an ecological improvement compared to the current Concrete Forest is factually incorrect. 'If only because the site will also be used for events, sports and other activities. Then you can plant a handful of trees, but the site must be intensively maintained.'

But for him too, the core of the matter is this: 'We have made countless suggestions, but hardly anything has been done with them. We have never been a full-fledged party.'

The alderman is surprised by this criticism. 'That detracts from the process,' says Van Niejenhuis. You shouldn't just look at rejected views. 'The plans have been adjusted, precisely because local residents have been involved for so long.'

He also wants to put into perspective the exegesis that with the Environmental Act, citizens suddenly have much more say. It has often been emphasized how important participation would become, says Van Niejenhuis. 'But the formal position of those involved has not really changed.'

According to the alderman, the municipality always tries to involve local residents as early as possible. 'But ultimately as a board you have to make decisions. And then you can never please everyone. People who already have a house make themselves heard and can unite. I am also there for the people who don't have a house yet.'

"The biggest advantage of the Environmental Act is that I have more work than ever," Wico Ankersmit jokes. He is director of the Netherlands Building and Housing Supervision Association and an independent consultant. He has been teaching government agencies and companies about the finer points of the new law for nine years. In recent months, his days have been filled with rooms of municipal officials, contractors and architects. 'Now it's about the reality.'

While the first notification for a construction activity in the new system was only submitted at the beginning of March (for the construction of a shed), the law is keeping people busy. Blogs that Ankersmit writes about, for example, the installation of fences are read tens of thousands of times.

He does feel a little sorry for his audience. 'The law is complicated and new for everyone. I'm holding my breath a little. In a few months we may be used to it, but now many are wondering: who on earth came up with this?'

In any case, Ankersmit himself had not chosen the slogan 'Simply better'. 'I say to all those halls: I expect it to be 'Complexly different'.' And that is actually not surprising, says Ankersmit, because finding a good balance in the use of scarce space is an extremely complicated puzzle. 'Wherever you want to build something new, something else comes into play.'

That is precisely why Ankersmit finds it awkward that such high expectations have been created around participation. 'The importance of the environment is one of the many interests that must be taken into account, in addition to sustainability and economic development, for example. The environment may have a say, but it does not decide, even though that impression is sometimes given.'

Ankersmit does think it is wise that the law encourages local residents to be involved as early as possible. 'Then you will know in good time whether there is support or resistance. Otherwise it will be a long wait until the Council of State.'

The residents of Stadshavens still feel that they have not really been listened to. But the municipal council also has little insight and control over the planning process, local residents experienced.

Together, the local residents worked through the environmental impact assessment (EIA) and the 1,160-page draft environmental plan. The project leader confided to them that there were probably only three people within the municipal organization who understood the whole thing. This gives the municipal council free rein, local residents fear. 'Visions always sound nice,' says Koos Haarsma. 'It will only become difficult when it becomes concrete.'

Councilor Van Niejenhuis is the first to admit this: 'It has become really complicated.' As a young councilor, he cut his teeth on the bat issue during the development of De Suikerzijde, another new construction district in Groningen. "You wouldn't wish that on anyone."

But a councilor does not have to do that, the councilor now believes. 'The council gives me a framework: build a city district, with so many homes, so much commercial space, and that according to the sustainability insights of our time. You don't have to go through all three thousand pages of an EIS for that.'

Building within a city simply means compromising. The municipality also wants to add something for current residents that is not yet there, such as the Havenpark. 'But sometimes you add something that current residents are not looking for, but which is necessary from a broader social interest.' Like high-rise buildings, indeed.

There will always be people who resist what disappears, such as the Concrete Forest. "But I hope that people will make a trade-off between their own interests and the collective interest," says the councilor. 'Do you really want to delay such a district for a year or two by litigating for two fewer floors, or do you consider: there are a lot of people who have no place at the moment?'

The local residents emphasize that for them it is really not a matter of 'not in our backyard'. 'We also really see the need for housing and want a liveable city. Talking about this for years deserves more than a listening ear, 'because you have to'. We believe that designing a city together is the essence of the Environmental Act.'
THE YOUNG CONTENT ABOUT LAW
The first quarter with the new Environmental Act was 'generally quiet and stable'. This was reported by outgoing Minister Hugo de Jonge (Home Affairs) to the House of Representatives last week. Although almost four hundred shortcomings have been reported that caused '(some) inconvenience', the minister says this has not seriously affected the licensing process.
All this talk about participation turns out to be a big lie
I hope that people will make a trade-off between their own interests and the collective interest
26 laws and hundreds of spatial planning regulations have been replaced by the Environmental Act as of January 1

View the original page: page 18, page 19

Graphic

 
Rein Bish, chairman of the Damsterbuurt residents' association, at the former grain warehouse on the Eemskanaal.
The back of the houses along the Eemskanaal Noordzijde.
Councilor Rik van Niejenhuis (PvdA) at the grain warehouse.

Load Date: April 22, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")