Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Welcome to the new heart of The Hague
de Volkskrant
January 12, 2018 Friday


Copyright 2018 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 10, 11
Length: 1770 words
Byline: BART DIRKS
Highlight: In its hunger for space, The Hague has set its sights on the Binckhorst, an old industrial estate. At least five thousand homes should be built. Today the starting signal is given for the drilling of the Victory Boogie Woogie tunnel. Won't it be too frumpy?
Body


Report de binckhorst
Ben Spoelstra entrepreneur

They are ineradicable, the chickens and roosters on the Binckhorst, a hundred-year-old business and industrial estate on the edge of The Hague. The municipality has already had a large number of them captured and brought to Drenthe, but they are still foraging there. This is how the 'Binckse Haan' became a symbol of the raw, unpolished area. And of resistance against vertification.

Today, the Binckhorst is still a mixed bag of economic and other activity: from pet crematorium to Catholic cemetery, from shipyard to concrete and asphalt plant, from traditional paper products factory to hip beer brewer, from pastry chef to paint factory. There is even a 17th-century castle hidden on the 130-hectare fringe between the A12, railway line and the municipal border with Voorburg and Rijswijk.

The area on the Trekvliet has been left to its own devices for a long time, but that is about to change. "In about ten years, the Binckhorst will no longer be hidden on the edge of The Hague, but in the heart of the city and of the people of The Hague," predicts Boudewijn Revis, city development councilor. 'Now you only come there if your car needs to be MOT'd. In ten years' time this will be a vibrant combination of working and living. Creative, innovative, inviting.'

The Binckhorst must become an urbanized area. "We're going into the air." According to population forecasts, The Hague will have 625 thousand inhabitants in 2040, a hundred thousand more than now. The Binckhorst is one of the few remaining locations the city has for large-scale expansion. That is why at least five thousand homes must be built here - if not ten thousand. With street names named after the characters of the Hague duo Koot and Bie, as far as the councilor is concerned.

In addition, there must be plenty of room for start-ups and other companies, says Revis. 'So there is a lot of activity here in a small area, but we also need a lot of greenery. After all, new ideas are born outside during the lunch break. There must be life day and night.'
Victory Boogie Woogie Tunnel
The infrastructure is tackled first. Today the drilling of the 1,860 meter long Victory Boogie Woogie tunnel under Voorburg and Binckhorst begins. The tunnel is part of the Rotterdamsebaan, which should provide better access to the south side of The Hague from 2020. 'The arrival of the Rotterdamsebaan is the game changer for the Binckhorst,' says Revis.

The greatest metamorphosis is now taking place above ground. Not everyone is confident about the outcome. "It's going too fast," says entrepreneur Ben Spoelstra. 'We go on holiday to France, Spain and Italy to see all that old stuff and then say: how nice is that? But we are going to demolish industrial gems nearby. I do not get it.' In March 2017, Spoelstra sold the car damage company that he had run for fifty years and which was founded by his father eighty years ago.

'The Binckhorst is like an old working-class neighborhood where everyone knows each other and helps each other,' says Spoelstra. 'But now the project developers have suddenly discovered the Binckhorst. We call those yuppies the highly educated criminals, pardon me for saying so. There were always many nice craft businesses here. How can they compete with the big boys with a lot of money?'

The exodus has long since begun. In the heyday, Spoelstra counted all car dealers on Binckhorstlaan as part of his customer base. 'Importers such as Louwman and Auto-Palace were here with their shiny showrooms. Peugeot, Opel, Toyota, everyone was located here. Twenty years ago, the Binckhorst was running like a charm. Until the municipality said: guys, those car companies have to leave here. The Hague wanted to create a telecom and computer park here. Nothing ever came of that. The impoverishment had actually already started then.'

In 2006, a master plan for the Binckhorst was drawn up by OMA, the architectural firm of Rem Koolhaas. The area had to be flattened for a futuristic district. However, the economic crisis and other practical objections put an end to those radical ideas in 2011. "Rem Koolhaas wanted to demolish everything and turn it into a kind of Metropolis," says councilor Revis, referring to the 1927 science fiction film by Fritz Lang. 'Now we are tackling the changes more organically.'
Tricky Vinex
Sabrina Lindemann saw this change in thinking as an invitation. The Berliner has lived in The Hague since 1991 and closely follows urban development. As a self-proclaimed 'urban curator', she is active in neighborhoods and areas that are going through a transition. Her fear is that the robust, industrial character of the Binckhorst will disappear and that a frumpy, raked Vinex district will emerge in its place.

"The municipality of The Hague has a tendency to tighten everything," says Lindemann, founder and, together with Bram Heijkers, initiator of I'M BINCK - the platform of the Binckhorst, a colorful coalition of old craft companies, young creative entrepreneurs, developers and residents. 'De Binckhorst is authentic and traditional, a raw, exciting edge of the city. I am certainly not against innovation, but you must preserve the core qualities of this area.' Her nightmare is the adjacent Laakkwartier. 'There are hardly any traces of the past left there. I don't think that is a successful transformation, it has become a soulless area.'

According to Lindemann, the consequence of an excessive drive for innovation is that socio-cultural networks disappear. And if you also demolish iconic buildings, places with meaning, you create a hole in the fabric of the city. 'It takes a lot of time to let that grow back together. Investments in an area are bigger than just the numbers that fit into a spreadsheet.'

What exactly Binckhorst will look like in 2030 remains to be seen. The government has declared it an experimental area for the Environmental Act. This law, which will actually only come into effect in 2021, bundles dozens of laws and hundreds of rules regarding infrastructure, buildings, cultural heritage, water, air, soil and nature. "The Environmental Act offers us opportunities," says councilor Revis. 'As a municipality you must have a clear vision of the area, without already knowing a destination for each plot. In the past, everything was set in stone in traditional zoning plans.'

The first steps are already being taken. Trees have been planted on the quays of the Binckhorsthaven, and the Fokkerhaven is being designed for events and recreation. An ugly office that blocks the view of the old De Binckhorst castle will be demolished. While the city council mourned the departure of the immense KPN head office on Maanplein in 2016, the complex is now being converted into hundreds of homes and housing for start-ups.

While project developers have yet to start building tower blocks and other real estate, pioneers have already fully discovered the area. Dozens of creative companies, innovative start-ups and artists settle on the Binckhorst, lured by the industrial locations and relatively low rents. The former Caballero Factory, 'CabFab' for insiders, houses companies with names such as Kroodle, Zoostation, DutchGiraffe - and with matching hip office furnishings.

The catering industry is also pioneering - with success. Restaurant Mama Kelly is located in the old boiler house of the Caballero factory; restaurant and coffee roaster Capriole in an old lacquer factory on the Fokkerhaven. Brewery/bar Kompaan on the Binckhorsthaven renovated a building where cold and freezer rooms used to be located, with a view of the concrete plant. The former fire station is home to PIP The Hague, a nightclub and stage for underground music, art and culture.
New gems
'The Binckhorst is a strangely closed area, if you have no business being there. But behind many doors there are great companies and initiatives. It is a flea market where you can find gems," says Stein Damen. He works in the Caballero Factory at Paladin Studios, where about forty people in their twenties and thirties work among ferns and palms on mobile games, including a Tamagotchi game to be launched this year.

During the I'M BINCK Festival last fall, Damen took a look at old and new entrepreneurs. 'Such a mix of old and new remains difficult. Some old companies are struggling, others want to expand. But that's the exciting thing here.'

De Binckhorst is in the middle of a transition phase, its current identity is going to change dramatically, says Sabrina Lindemann of I'M BINCK. The question is how the balance will turn out in the future. Her platform therefore launched a plea in October to preserve thousands of jobs and space for dynamism and spontaneous initiatives, in addition to thousands of new homes. And not to demolish characteristic buildings and places. 'You shouldn't plant tidy rose beds here, but production plants such as fiber hemp or hops, for the local beer Binckse Belofte and our beer brewer Kompaan. The concrete and asphalt plant in the heart of the area is difficult for housing construction. But the unloading quay with inland vessels does give it a unique character.'

There is support for I'M BINCK's Core Values ​​Manifesto in politicians in The Hague. In November, the city council adopted a motion from the Hague City Party to use it as a 'guideline' for further development. Real estate developers made a similar appeal with their quality agenda with the plat Hague title Hâh ut râh (keep it raw).

"The Binckhorst must retain its character," councilor Revis agrees. He is delighted with the trendy catering industry and the creative industry. 'Companies such as Repro van de Kamp and the famous cakes from Maison Kelder also belong here. But the Bus Museum and breeding grounds for artists will have to move every now and then. This will be a living-working area, not an open work studio.'

Revis itself has another concern: accessibility by public transport. 'We need high-quality public transport, not a bus that runs every hour, but a tram or metro with high frequency and speed. If we build five or perhaps ten thousand homes here, I don't want a tram to arrive once an hour in 2028.' For the time being, the government has not given any support for a 'metro by the sea' from Rotterdam via the Binckhorst to Scheveningen.

As far as the alderman is concerned, the free-ranging Binck chickens and roosters that still have Binckhorst as their domicile can stay. 'They are now below the irritation level.'
We're going on holiday to see all that old stuff. Here we demolish industrial gems. I do not get it

View the original page: page 10, page 11

Graphic

 
CASTLE De Binckhorst is named after the 17th century castle on the Trekvliet. The business premises that are located right in front of 'the forgotten castle' will be demolished. There will be more greenery at the location.
YACHT YARD In 1925, Jan de Haas bought land on the Binckhorst from rowing club De Laak. Roel (right) is the fourth generation at the shipyard. His father Jos (left) still helps.
CIGARETTES Cigarettes were produced at Binckhorst from 1953 to 1995. Since 2006, the Caballero Factory has been a municipal business complex of 12,000 m2.
TELECOM The Hague found KPN's decision in 2016 to move its head office from Binckhorst to Rotterdam 'incomprehensible'. Now some houses are being built there.
HORECA View from the Caballero Factory of the old boiler house where Mama Kelly restaurant is located. Since last year it has had a sister in the Olympic Stadium in Amsterdam.
faded glory? What one person finds trash, another finds charming. Critics of the municipal new construction plans fear that the Binckhorst will become too frugal and raked. Hâh ut râh is the plea in plain Hague: keep it raw.
START-UPS There are now many young entrepreneurs in the buildings of 'original residents' such as PTT/KPN, Caballero and the Ministry of Defense.
CONCRETE The Basal company supplies concrete mortar from Binckhorst. The quay is accessible to inland vessels via the Trekvliet, dug as early as 1344-1345.

Load Date: January 11, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")