Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=World Heritage shows us who we are
Leidsch Dagblad
October 30, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: First
Length: 896 words
Byline: rien floris , r.floris@hollandmediacombination.nl
Body


by Rien Floris Boris van der Ham in the breach for heritage
Alkmaar 'The Dutch identity does not exist', Queen Máxima once said. However, our world heritage shows us who we are as Dutch people, says Boris van der Ham. Van der Ham is the new chairman of the http://werelderfgoed.nl Foundation. On November 2, he will speak at the symposium of the International Council of Museums in the Waterlinie Museum in Bunnik about the protection of world heritage.
        The World Heritage Foundation focuses on the ten Dutch world heritage sites, but Van der Ham naturally shares the international concerns about the heritage that is being destroyed by the IS battle. “That is of course a completely different discussion than we have in the Netherlands. During wars you see how vulnerable the world heritage is, because it is old and quickly becomes a victim of violence."
        Baal "We also saw it during the Yugoslavia wars where bridges and inner city areas of old cities were destroyed. You now see this happening in Syria and Iraq where buildings are destroyed by normal violence of war. But sometimes also for ideological reasons, where religiously extreme groups tear down certain images because they are a reminder of other religions. These are sometimes no longer practiced at all, but date back to ancient times, such as Baal-like rites. They find that so blasphemous that they blow it up."
        Horror A few months ago, UNESCO met in Bonn and Van der Ham saw the horror about this. "The people from Syria, Iraq and other parts of the Middle East are at a loss, their heritage is in danger. Then you get discussions about whether UNESCO should participate in the reconstruction and whether it is still original. But horror at the destruction predominated. It is precisely in these regions that many people are proud of the thousands of years old culture. We must show solidarity with that, because that is where we come from.”
        No blown-up works of art in the Netherlands; you shouldn't think about it. “Things are in relatively good order in the Netherlands. People find it important, they are places where many volunteers are involved, which makes our heritage very strong."
        Yet dangers sometimes lurk. “Much of our world heritage is connected to water. That always requires coordination, it is literally liquid matter that you are dealing with. And Schokland of course has very different problems than the canal belt or Kinderdijk, but attention is paid to everything here."
        He feels lucky about that, because things are sometimes different elsewhere in Europe. "Recently, European world heritage sites have been working together more. You see in Western Europe that we are more prosperous than in Eastern Europe, where heritage is under financial pressure. The possibilities of linking educational projects to heritage so that children and adults also know what it is, is not so obvious in other parts of Europe."
        Lobby The Dutch world heritage tells our story to the world through the water and through architecture such as the Van Nelle factory. "We organize it relatively well with foundations and a lobby towards politicians. For example, the Environmental Act was amended in the House of Representatives with an amendment for world heritage that was not included. The heritage environment makes the enjoyment of a world heritage very important. If you are going to build anything around the Woudagemaal or around Kinderdijk that does not match the landscape, then you should be able to say something about that."
        Van der Ham would like to appeal to young people. “They wonder what history is needed for. It is precisely at this time that we must realize more how important history is. It tells us how wars arise, but also where Dutch identity comes from. 'Who are we anyway?', people ask themselves in the refugee crisis. That is precisely why it is important to know your history. The world heritage sites are the gems among them. With buildings, architecture and landscape you can very well explain how we became what we are today. We are a very diverse country, but that diversity and the places we have contain beautiful stories about the Netherlands."
        World class And not just for young people. "We have world-class heritage that attracts foreign tourists, but many Dutch people are not aware of it. They go to Rome, but they do not see the cultural treasures in their own backyard. While people from abroad come to see the Rietveld Schröder House and the Van Nelle Factory, many Dutch people do not even know them. I have personally experienced how beautiful Kinderdijk is. I'm from South Holland, so I thought I knew enough windmills. When I was there a few months ago, I was enchanted by how beautiful it is there.”
        World Heritage tells us who we are and what the Netherlands actually is. And he would probably like to add something to the list. “I have to keep my distance, because something like this has to come from the places themselves. But we now have a report from the Roman lines from Nijmegen to Alphen aan den Rijn to Katwijk. The border of the Roman Empire extends into England and Germany, but has not yet been added to the world heritage. Maybe in a few years.”

Load Date: October 30, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")