Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Working on Hart van Holland
Leidsch Dagblad
October 29, 2016 Saturday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 008
Length: 508 words
Byline: Innert Jan Glastra
Body


  Region We have a beautiful region and it should remain that way. Of course, more houses and new roads are needed and much more, but the appearance of the city and country is carefully taken into account. Ambitious and it may turn out to be a delusion, but that 'spatial quality is leading, not following', that is what is stated in bold in the 'regional agenda environmental vision Hart van Holland' that ten regional municipalities created together.
The document, which was presented on Thursday evening during a meeting of the Rijnlands Architecture Platform in Leiden, is still a draft. And before people get too hopeful about it: it is also emphatically a vision, towards the year 2040. It contains all kinds of general goals, for example about reducing CO2 emissions and a joint approach to land subsidence. But the vision it expresses leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. The Dune and Bulb Region, Leiden region and Kaag en Braassem want to blur the mutual boundaries even further and create more coherence when planning new developments. So that the region becomes better and more beautiful. According to this regional agenda - which forms the basis for the individual environmental visions that regional municipalities must have when the new Environmental Act comes into effect in 2019 - there is every reason to do so.
Varied
The area mentioned has many valuable qualities, such as special landscapes, cultural heritage and economic clusters. And as a whole it offers almost a total package. Moreover, the Old Rhine runs straight through it, the line along which the regional urbanization of roughly the last thousand years has taken place. The ten regional municipalities have been working on the vision for three years and have involved many residents, experts and organizations. This collective approach earned them the designation 'national pilot' - the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment sees it as an example for other municipalities. The ten municipalities have drawn up three 'ambition lines' along which they want to develop the living environment region in the coming years, so that it remains beautiful, varied and strong. These are 'strong economic position', 'healthy & safe' and 'sustainable & robust'. The first is based on the idea that a healthy economy is the basis for prosperity, and that a well-designed living environment promotes the development of the economy. To encourage people to live healthier and safer lives, good cycling and walking connections with the countryside are needed. Everyone should be able to get there within fifteen minutes. Finally, Sustainable & Robust should remind planners that when they come up with a new road or a new building, it is not only to solve an immediate problem but must also be useful in the future. The regional regional agenda environmental vision 2040' was created in collaboration between Kaag and BRaassem, Oegstgeest, Katwijk, Teylingen, Leiden, Voorschoten, Leiderdorp, Wassenaar, Noordwijk and Zoeterwoude.

Load Date: October 28, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")