Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Build smart and chase the heat out of the city
de Volkskrant
July 9, 2018 Monday


Copyright 2018 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 14, 15
Length: 1640 words
Byline: BY IANTHE SAHADAT
Highlight: The heat of recent weeks is not only leading to drought, but also drawing attention to another problem: our cities are deserts of concrete. What can be done about that?
Body


It has been remarkably warm in the Netherlands for weeks. This leads to drought and also draws attention to another problem: our cities are deserts of concrete. What can be done about that?

When it is 27 degrees outside, it remains pleasant for lawyers and bankers to stay in the office colossi on the Amsterdam Zuidas - often architectural masterpieces with an abundance of glass. That's all well and good, but it is of course quite idiotic, says Delft professor Andy van den Dobbelsteen.

The Netherlands is full of smooth glass office buildings without decent sun protection, where the air conditioning is already on at 12 degrees Celsius, because a lot of sunlight can enter. As soon as you can fry a fried egg on the paving stones outside, the air conditioners are blowing so loudly that you start to wonder: is there no other way? The professor of Climate Design and Sustainability certainly does that.

Even if the climate did not warm up further, we would have a problem in Dutch cities. Cities are heat islands, deserts of concrete, clinkers, asphalt and tiles that absorb heat all day long, retain it and release it into the air. This causes less labor productivity, health problems and, in extreme cases, more mortality.

It is therefore a mystery to urban climate researchers that not much is happening in the Netherlands anymore in the field of climate adaptation and heat-resistant construction. By this they mean: more grass, more trees, roof and facade vegetation, the right sun protection, building with modern types of stone that absorb less heat and making smart use of wind and shade.

When it is 26 degrees Celsius in the South Holland polder, it can be up to 9 degrees warmer in the heart of Rotterdam. "That is unpleasant and problematic during the day for vulnerable groups such as the elderly, babies and the sick, but even more so at night," says microclimate researcher Marjolein Pijpers-van Esch from TU Delft. 'The major health hazard of heat lies at night. Because the heat lingers in cities, people sleep poorly. And if they do sleep, the body cannot recover sufficiently because it is only busy cooling.' The night temperature also increases a little every hot day in a row.
Heat wave
It sounds harsh, but what we actually need is a modest disaster, says Van den Dobbelsteen. According to him, a heat wave with heat deaths makes more of an impression than good arguments to make policymakers understand the urgency.

'We still build the same as 20 years ago. We love big windows. In combination with poor sun protection and well-insulated houses, you need air conditioning to cool your house. Ten years ago no one had such a thing, now you can just get them at Gamma.'

Today's students of architecture and urban planning are aware of the necessity, says Van den Dobbelsteen. 'But the current crop of architects and city developers still builds large, sleek buildings made of glass where there is no way to attach sun blinds to the outside. You may like that, but above all it is incomprehensible.'

A disaster, or a government that intervenes, are the only two ways to bring about change, according to landscape architect and urban planning scientist Sanda Lenzholzer (Wageningen University). 'We have just completed a study in which we asked a hundred international experts in this field how to achieve climate adaptation. Let a lot of people die from a heat wave like in 2003 or 2006, they say. Then you suddenly see rules emerging, such as: every new house must have a 'green' facade. A little encouragement and subsidies won't get you there.'
Abroad
Lenzholzer, a German by birth, wrote the alarming book Weather in the City a few years ago. She is currently working on a major international study on urban climate. She observes that internationally speaking, the Netherlands is considerably behind South Korea or Kenya, but also the neighboring countries Belgium and Germany. 'You see amended building regulations in our southern neighbors that require less heat-absorbing facade materials, but we don't have that here.'

She gives the example of Stuttgart, a city in a hill basin with many valley winds where temperature and air pollution cause major problems in the summer months. 'They now use cool air flows from the hills by keeping entire areas open or not planting them densely. This is laid down in zoning plans. I don't know of a single example of this caliber in the Netherlands.'

She doesn't really know why that is. 'A strong oil lobby, a neoliberal regime? In Germany, environmental issues have been a serious issue for decades, while in the Netherlands it was the domain of goat's wool socks for a long time. That certainly plays a role.'

There are also some beautiful things happening here and there in green areas, say the microclimate researchers. For example, Arnhem, already quite green thanks to relatively large city parks, is the first Dutch municipality to include a heat map in its 'structural vision', says Lenzholzer. 'Not every neighborhood has a problem, an industrial estate where no one stays at night could be a bit hotter. Not a neighborhood with retirement homes.'

If you ask microclimatologists what our best remedy against urban heat is where the buildings are already 'finished', they unanimously say: trees. Trees are active coolers, says Marjolein Pijpers-van Esch. 'They provide shade and they evaporate their stored moisture - which is cooling. Moreover, they remove harmful CO2 from the air.' Lenzholzer: 'Researchers measured temperatures up to 6 degrees lower more than a hundred meters away from a large city park.'

Another good example is Rotterdam with its 235,000 square meters (about 25 football fields) of 'roof fields': green roof gardens, created with municipal subsidies. 'Roof gardens work as natural air conditioning,' explains Pijpers-van Esch. 'Leaves retain water that evaporates in heat, which provides cooling. With green roofs you see that the underlying house remains cooler and the air directly above the building can be a few degrees lower.'

That's nice, but not enough, says Lenzholzer. 'That has little effect at street level, green facades work much better then.'
Wind corridor
What you actually want, says Pijpers-van Esch, is to bring that cool air down from above the green roofs. 'For example, through more space between buildings and more height differences. You can take this into account in a new neighborhood. Or think about the colours: light colors are nice for the residents, but reflective sunlight actually provides more warmth to the environment.'

Unfortunately, there is no uniform solution, says Pijpers-van Esch. 'We can look at Mediterranean countries, but they have different sun heights and therefore less shade. We can make much more use of shade. In Asia they build cities with a wind corridor (an open strip between buildings in line with the most common wind direction, ed.) but I understand that in the old center of Amsterdam or Utrecht you are not going to immediately use a wrecking ball to make room for that.'

Sometimes an energy solution coincides with climate adaptation. Solar panels and collectors ensure less heating of the immediate environment, because they convert solar radiation into useful electricity and hot water. Many people choose a tiled garden or concrete fence for practical reasons, says Professor Van den Dobbelsteen. 'Realize that plants, grass, wood or vegetable tiles can save a few degrees for your house and the surrounding neighborhood.'

Cities and departments are indeed paying attention to climate changes and the adjustments required for this in the city, a spokesperson for Minister Ollongren (spatial planning) responds to the accusation that too little is being done in the Netherlands. He points to the 'city deal climate adaptation', signed in 2016 by the relevant ministries, nine major cities and various companies to look 'for innovative solutions to these types of issues'. Furthermore, 'we are examining whether you can include limit values ​​in building regulations for the number of hours that a building may be exposed to overheating'. What can also be a good impetus, according to the spokesperson: in the new environmental law (effective from 2021), municipalities and provinces are given the freedom to draw up urban development regulations themselves.
CONSTRUCTION TIPS
- Sun blinds outside the building cool a few degrees more than sun blinds inside the building;

- Build a pipe network under large city squares, use cold winter water for cooling. You store the heated water for the winter, when it can be used for district heating, among other things.

- Remove paving from parking spaces or playgrounds and plant them with grass: it collects water and cools it.
-
Cities usually expand in a circular shape. For temperature regulation it is better to expand in a finger-like manner: long headlands of buildings alternating with green strips. A good example is the Sonsbeek Park in Arnhem, which extends from Burgers Zoo almost to the central station.
BIG TEMPERATURE DIFFERENCES IN THE CITY
When you hear the term microclimate, you may think of a terrarium of one of Freek Vonk's house reptiles. Climate researchers are more likely to refer to the climate of a city or district. You can create a heat map (based on numerous calculations) of a city, which shows, for example, how much higher the perceived temperature is on an urban business park or in a working-class neighborhood compared to the rural environment of the city. That can sometimes differ by almost 10 degrees.
We still build the same as 20 years ago. We love big windows

View the original page: page 14, page 15, page 15

Graphic

 
DakAkker in Rotterdam: the first harvestable roof in the Netherlands. Vegetables, herbs and fruit are grown on site.

Load Date: July 8, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")