Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Kaag and Braassem councilor team announced
Leidsch Dagblad
June 20, 2022 Monday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 8
Length: 298 words
Byline: Marieta Kroft
Body


Kaag and Braassem
 The names of the four aldermen of Kaag and Braassem are known. Gerben van Duin and Dolf Kistemaker are nominated by the PRO Kaag en Braassem party. At D66 it is about Nick van Egmond and the VVD keeps Yvonne Peters on the plush.
Gerben van Duin (63) deals with, among other things, the social domain, sports and accommodations. Until last week he was an alderman in Nieuwkoop for Natural Nieuwkoop. Between 2002 and 2019 he was an alderman in Noordwijk and before that a councilor for eight years. De Noordwijker is a national member of the VVD. “Locally, I have always felt connected to local political parties. Decide locally what suits best without taking into account national dogmas," he says on the Natural Nieuwkoop website.
Woubruggenaar Kistemaker (58), currently a councilor, will be given the portfolios of housing, environmental law and vision and mobility, among other things. He is currently head of department at the municipality of Edam-Volendam. He was also a council and committee member in Lisse for many years.
25-year-old Nick van Egmond from Oude Wetering has been involved with D66 since 2013 and has been party leader and party leader since 2018. He currently works at Achmea in the field of Public Affairs. His portfolio will include finance and school construction.
56-year-old Yvonne Peters from Roelofarendsveen remains in her place, but partly gets a different portfolio. She will work on spatial planning, industrial estates and land matters. She has been a councilor for eight years.
The final portfolio allocation will be announced after the first meeting of the new council. The installation will be next Wednesday. Current councilors Petra van der Wereld (Samen voor Kaag en Braassem) and Inge van der Meer (D66) are saying goodbye.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 19, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")