Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Councilor: 'Housing construction is stagnating'
Leidsch Dagblad
December 7, 2021 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 13
Length: 486 words
Byline: Tim Engelbart
Body


Alphen aan den Rijn
The introduction of the new Environmental Act as of July 1, 2022 will cause problems in housing construction. That's what councilor Gerard van As (building/Nieuw Elan) thinks. The Alphen civil service is also critical and points out weaknesses in the national ICT system.
Van As joins a group of local administrators who complained yesterday afternoon in the Telegraaf about the new Environmental Act, which from next summer must bundle various building and environmental laws into one legal regulation. Local administrators believe that the speedy completion of construction projects is in jeopardy.
Deputy Jeroen Olthof of the province of North Holland talks about 'unnecessary regulations' that 'make new construction practically impossible'. Councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop mentions 'a tasty cake of rules regarding nitrogen, sustainability, climate-adaptive construction, nature legislation and, to top it all off, the accumulation of noise regulations'. "We have ended up in a situation where you as a director have nowhere to go."
Councilor Van As criticizes the bureaucracy that sets up the new law. "You have to draw up an environmental vision and environmental plans," he sums up. "Before you have that on paper, housing construction stagnates."
The zoning plans will also disappear, and will be replaced by environmental plans. "It won't be easy, in terms of time. Everyone has to anticipate it."
Looking at coffee grounds
Peter Commissaris, who is the Environmental Act program manager for the municipality of Alphen, is less afraid of delays in housing construction. "We are doing everything we can to be well prepared," he says. "We have been working on this since 2017." However, he also has to admit that it is a waste of money, because new legal procedures will also lead to new delays due to lawsuits. "New case law will have to be developed." The Commissioner does not know to what extent courts and the Council of State will therefore halt construction. "But this is inherent to all new legislation," he thinks.
The Alphen program manager is concerned about the underlying national ICT system, with which all municipalities must upload their environmental plans to a central server from July. "There are signals that the system cannot handle that," the Commissioner said. "Software suppliers are extremely critical."
The official expects a response from the Ministry of the Interior. "There would be a 'go or no go moment' at the end of November, but that has not happened yet."
Partly for this reason, the Commissioner thinks that a postponement of the Environmental Act could be in the air. That will not be Alphen's fault, the official emphasizes. "We will have practical tests at the beginning of 2022 to see whether the software is properly connected to us and the procedures are correct."
Alphen aan den Rijn is wary of the new Environmental Act
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 6, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")