Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wetterskip adjusts remission
Friesch Dagblad
July 8, 2021 Thursday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 309 words
Body


Opposition cannot reverse the stripping of compensation
Leeuwarden The complete remission of water board tax for people from the lowest income groups will be permanently abolished. The board of Wetterskip Fryslân agreed to the proposal to waive not 100 percent, but 80 percent of the costs. This results in annual savings of 780,000 euros for the water board.
About 13,000 households are eligible for the remission scheme. At the proposal of the executive board of Wetterskip Fryslân, which will have to make significant cuts in the coming years to complete the budget, those households will have to pay part of the water board tax from 2022. Sixty euros per year per household, together 780,000 euros.
When discussing the Framework Memorandum 2022-2026, which included the new remission policy, the opposition parties failed to reverse this measure. PvdA, Water Natuur, FNP, 50PLUS, the Party for the Animals and the guaranteed nature faction had drawn up an amendment in which the full remission is maintained, in exchange for an increase in fees, partial abolition of the compensation for the proper dumping of dredged material and benefits from the Environmental Act.
When it became apparent that the coalition factions (twelve of the 23 seats present) would not go along with this, it was watered down to a motion with the call to re-examine the possibilities for these alternative cuts. That motion was also not supported by the coalition of CDA, VVD, ChristenUnie, Lagere Lasten Burger and the guaranteed factions for companies and farmers.
For that reason, the opposition voted against the entire Framework Memorandum, which therefore passed with the smallest possible majority.
Henni van Asten (PvdA): "The discussion about the remission has been so difficult that we are voting against the Framework Memorandum."
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 20, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")