Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='We will continue to suffer from traffic jams on the power grid for a long time'; The power grid is filling up
Special coordinator Voorhorst: 'The power supply will work completely differently'
NRC
December 21, 2022 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: ECONOMY; Page 1
Length: 1855 words
Byline: Marike Stellinga

Erik van der Walle
Body


ABSTRACT
Interview Ben Voorhorst special coordinator
Especially now that citizens and companies want to quickly become more sustainable, the power grid is full. Ben Voorhorst drew up an action plan. "This is not just putting up a few solar panels or wind turbines and that's it."
COMPLETE TEXT:
In Brabant and Limburg, no more companies could be added in June. The power grid was overcrowded, caused by the many solar roofs, sustainability in the industry and the growing number of charging stations. Companies that requested a connection received no response. "That made a difference," says Ben Voorhorst, former operational director at grid operator Tennet. "Because they were not told when they could get a connection."
Voorhorst (63 years old) was sent by the cabinet to Brabant and Limburg to see if he could solve the problems on the power grid. This Wednesday he will present a national action plan, because the same problems threaten in large parts of the country. The grid is full, while citizens and companies want to quickly become more sustainable because gas prices are so high.
Solar panels, heat pumps and electric boilers have been in short supply since the war in Ukraine, and they all have to be connected to the power grid.
The fact that the electricity grid is full is not only annoying for companies, but also for Minister Rob Jetten (D66, Climate and Energy). He wants to quickly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For example, by electrifying production processes that currently still run on gas. Or by significantly expanding the number of wind turbines at sea, so that gas and coal-fired power stations have to run less.
Permits and consultation procedures for expansions of the above-ground network regularly take six years or more and that will not change quickly, says Voorhorst. For example, in the Netherlands, "many dozens" of switching stations need to be added. "A small one is two hectares in size." That is the same size as four football fields. Voorhorst: “People sometimes ask me: why does it take so long? Then I say: because something always has to pass through a backyard."
Laundry list of action items
Can it be done faster? Voorhorst has drawn up a laundry list of action points together with grid operators, provinces, municipalities and companies. These often come down to better cooperation, for example in a regional 'energy council' for one or more projects. "Now put your heads together." And think ahead. Municipalities and provinces must again pursue an active land policy, the action plan states. "Buy the land you need for such a switching station, for example."
“We actually have to do three things at the same time. We must make better use of the current network. We need to expand the net faster. And citizens and companies must start using electricity differently. None of those points are going to help us out. And even with the three together, we will continue to suffer from traffic jams on the power grid for a long time. But all three will help us make the energy system better suited to the changes that are coming."
Voorhorst thinks the action plan will shorten grid congestion by two years. “Even with those two years of profit, you hit limits. You continue to have to deal with long lead times."
Better use of the current network can be done by regulating electricity traffic. Tennet created space in Limburg and Brabant by paying companies if they use less electricity at busy times. This means the traffic jam has been temporarily resolved. This approach can serve as a model for the whole of the Netherlands. Currently, using the power grid during off-peak hours is just as expensive for companies as during peak times, when there is a lot of demand for power. That has to be different. For example, by charging a cheaper rate for 'rush hour avoiders'. Just like on the train. Those who want electricity at peak times pay more.
Calm hours
Other concrete proposals: find more companies that are willing to pay for less electricity at busy times. And let companies that contribute little to overload (congestion), for example because they use electricity during off hours, wait less time for a connection. Provide a standard procedure for applying for permits for the expansion. "And do this in a coordinated manner between grid operators and governments, so that as many steps as possible can be taken simultaneously, and not unnecessarily one after the other."
Voorhorst believes that expanding the grid more quickly can happen if provinces, grid operators and municipalities work together much more closely. "We discovered in Brabant and Limburg that these people talk past each other, do not understand each other's language and work against each other without being aware of it."
This coordination must also apply to the strategic purchase of sites where new infrastructure is to be built. "There was going to be a large switching station in Amsterdam, everyone thought it was a good location. But suddenly another department of the municipality came up with new conditions. In Limburg we went to see how many departments were involved in setting up a switching station. What do you think? Fifteen! Everyone was shocked."
Voorhorst does not see issuing permits and building much faster. “Six or eight years is nothing if you want to build above-ground transport for high voltage. I don't see that changing any time soon: the new Environmental Act actually provides more participation." And that's how it should be, says Voorhorst. "Just decide in a year that a high-voltage line will go through your garden? Participation takes time. I'm happy that we live in the Netherlands and not in China."
Even though the procedures have regularly caused him headaches. "I have sometimes experienced that, when constructing an above-ground line, we had not investigated to what extent horses - there was a riding school there - were startled by the crackling sound of the above-ground line. Unjustified, the Council of State found. Cross it out and go do your homework again.”
In the meantime, it is very important that citizens and companies change their behavior. Because it will soon determine when we use full energy, says Voorhorst. When the wind blows and the sun shines, there is a lot of electricity. Not during a windless night. By 2030, more than 80 percent of electricity will come from wind and sun. “People don't realize how big the change is. This is not just putting up a few solar panels or wind turbines and that's it. The power supply will work completely differently."
The old power grid was driven by the demand for electricity. Someone turns on their washing machine, a factory starts running. That electricity was supplied by a gas or coal-fired power plant, with a stable capacity. “There was a button on it. Depending on demand, those power stations produced harder or softer."
Start thinking differently
The new power grid is controlled by the supply of electricity. When the sun shines and there is a bit of wind, there is enough for the whole of the Netherlands and even more. Citizens and companies should take advantage of this by switching on their machines or clothes dryers at exactly that time. Or charge their car. Electricity prices are still flat for consumers and most companies, but will vary per hour. And companies have to start thinking completely differently. Voorhorst: "Now energy is something for the purchasing manager, but that must become part of the strategic policy of the company's top management. It must organize its entire production process accordingly. And calculate: at what compensation am I willing to use less electricity?"
Companies also need to consider how they will store electricity when it is in abundance, for example in the summer. "Where will the electricity come from if the wind and sun are not there? In any case, there will be no more coal-fired power stations after 2030. Every company must look at the extent to which it can make its power use more flexible. By storage or by sometimes limiting use. That is good for the company, but also for the network. As a company you don't have to wait for a heavier net."
In any case, what needs to be abolished is the automatic system where solar panels supply power to the grid and the energy company returns that power for free at a later time. "Consumers and companies can no longer use the power grid as a free battery."
For private individuals, this is returned free of charge via the so-called netting scheme. "If too much wind or solar energy is produced, it is still the energy company's bad luck. They have to look for a solution."
'Reverse Leveling'
According to Voorhorst, the netting scheme, which two million households use, does not fit with the new power grid. This causes energy companies to incur costs. “Who pays that subsidy in practice? The consumer who cannot afford solar panels. Those people pay the costs. That's just a reverse leveling."
In the coming years, companies and consumers will increasingly be asked to adjust their behavior. To deal intelligently with their supply and demand of electricity. But were these problems unforeseeable? Shouldn't the net have been reinforced much earlier?
Voorhorst told NRC at the end of 2020 that the demand for electricity would be "hardly greater in ten years". The then director of Tennet did say that the industry was the major uncertain factor: how much electricity would it need? [national] Climate Agreement in 2019, the business community was asked about its plans. I was there myself and there was little or no progress. "
According to Voorhorst, the result was that the expected power requirement was estimated too low. This would go from 106 terawatt hours (TWh) in 2020 to 120 TWh in 2030. That forecast is now 200 TWh.
“That is mainly due to the industry and that is also very good. Minister Jetten has ensured that there are many more wind farms at sea and that has also boosted the demand for electricity." Industrial companies therefore know that there is enough electricity to electrify their business processes. They then dare to invest in it.
Using the power grid more intensively, while at the same time expanding the grid, increases the risk of disruptions. "We are going to sail closer to the wind," says Voorhorst. "With fewer buffers in the system, the chance that you will tempt fate increases. Will we then have major disruptions more often? I dare not say that, but statistically the there's no less chance."
'The power supply will work completely differently'
Solar panels, heat pumps and electric boilers have been in short supply since the war in Ukraine
Special coordinator
Ben Voorhorst (Heeten, 1959) is originally an agricultural technology engineer and joined the management of Tennet in 2007 as operational director. He had already worked at Tennet (and predecessor Sep) for ten years.
In addition to his management position at Tennet, he was president of Entso-e, the European network of grid operators. He left the national grid operator on January 1, 2021.
In June, he was appointed by Energy Minister Rob Jetten as special coordinator for tackling the problems with the full electricity grid in North Brabant and Limburg.
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Special coordinator Ben Voorhorst, still here as operational director of Tennet. "When the sun shines and there is a bit of wind, there is enough for the whole of the Netherlands and even more."
Photo Marten van Dijl/ANP

Load Date: December 20, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")