Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Build smarter in the North'; New citizens' initiative is provisionally called 'All of North, One Garden'
Leidsch Dagblad
March 8, 2022 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 324 words
Byline: Loman Leefmans
Body


New citizens' initiative is provisionally called 'All of North, One Garden'
To lead
In Leiden North, construction should not be done blindly, but 'smartly', with an eye for greenery and sufficient participation for the current residents. To help the municipality and the corporations involved, a citizens' initiative has been created that is currently going by the working name 'All of North, One Garden'.
Extensive construction plans are in the pipeline on both sides of Willem de Zwijgerlaan. The tower blocks of the controversial Lead project, for example, next to the Nieuw Leyden district. But apartment complexes will also be built on the grounds of the Groenoordhallen and further on, at the Hoven, the Prinsessenbuurt and near the Sumatrastraat, new construction will also go up according to preliminary plans.
It will create approximately 5,000 new residents of North within ten years. In addition, Willem de Zwijgerlaan will become part of the Leiden ring road, with higher traffic speeds and fewer crossings, making it a greater barrier than is currently the case.
The new citizens' initiative is not against building in the neighborhood, as stated in the neighborhood brochure that can also be found on social media. But this must be done in consultation with local residents and neighborhood organizations. "More influence from residents, and less from government and corporations," said spokesman Vincent Kokke. "That also fits within the new Environmental Act."
The initiative is supported by, among others, korfball club Pernix, football club Roodenburg, the Ons Buiten allotment complex, the Stedelijk Gymnasium, the Imam Malik mosque, residents' organization the Zwijgers van Noord and the Tuin van Noord, including a tea house. That collective will organize a walk for council members on Wednesday, March 9, who will then be able to debate with each other about the planned housing development in Noord. Kokke already gives a suggestion. "Overkluis the Willem de Zwijgerlaan, creating 300 meters of free ground."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 7, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")