Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Living comes before Schiphol'; interview Sjaak Akkerman, director of Nature and Environment North Holland:
Leidsch Dagblad
July 2, 2021 Friday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 13
Length: 722 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Body


interview Sjaak Akkerman, director of Nature and Environment North Holland:
Nature and Environment North Holland caused a stir with a plan for housing construction near Schiphol. While Schiphol's opponents always complained about the nuisance, it appears that there is room to build anyway, says director Sijas Akkerman. Changing flight paths or closing runways makes housing construction possible.
Who wants to live near Schiphol?
"There are plenty of people who want to live and work around Schiphol, and there is also a major housing development target in the Randstad. But the airport means less construction can be done."
Additional housing construction will cause more inconvenience, because the airport will remain.
"In our opinion, the housing shortage in the Schiphol region is more important than the airport. The corona crisis is a good reason for reflection. If Schiphol's runways are used differently, there will no longer be any nuisance in some places around the airport such as Aalsmeer and around 120,000 homes can be built there. This can be combined with another exit route from the Kaagbaan. But in such a way that nuisance does not increase elsewhere."
Reducing the number of takeoffs and landings leaves little room for construction. How is that possible?
“Because all runways are still in use. There will be slightly less disruption everywhere around Schiphol, but planes will still fly low over homes everywhere. Quieter aircraft also provide construction space, up to a maximum of 20,000 additional homes. But more is needed. Adjusting flight routes is a relatively easy step and good for around 40,000 homes."
What are the consequences of runway closures?
"That means the end of Schiphol's transfer system, because the daily peaks in which the passenger flows are now brought together can no longer be facilitated. We believe that Schiphol can no longer continue in the way it is currently organized. The environment is suffering too much from it, which is why shrinkage is necessary."
However, the houses around Schiphol are still very popular. Then the nuisance isn't that bad, right?
"There will be a new Environmental Act, in which the government will add up all environmental noise. It was previously said that this means that 365,000 houses in the region cannot be built. This law has now been postponed, but I get the impression that it will eventually be introduced. The consequences of this new law are even more drastic than our plan. So our proposal is: let's see together what is possible."
Giving up the hub system is very drastic for KLM and the Dutch economy.
“We think this will not be too bad. I receive emails from worried KLM employees. Their jobs are at stake, I understand that. But I expect that KLM employees will find another job in construction, healthcare or technology. They are go-getter."
The EU is committed to more flying, so aren't we shooting ourselves in the foot with a small airport?
"I think that's stupid of the EU. The trend is moving towards lower CO2 emissions. I think it is a shame that the Netherlands seems to be a conservative country when it comes to sustainability. Step forward and innovate, in five or ten years that will create the most jobs."
Schiphol must return to 400,000 takeoffs and landings if it does not receive a nature permit. Does this make your plan redundant?
"If no permit is issued, this plan can be used to show where homes would be built. But there is still a cabinet formation, in addition to the ministry's decision on the permit. The nitrogen problem is still there. I expect it to be a difficult story."
The environmental movement campaigned against Schiphol for years. Now suddenly houses have to be built. Isn't that also possible elsewhere?
“Politicians did not want to choose and just muddled through. You may want to build somewhere else, but where? Then we have to fill up nature reserves around cities. We don't want that. We are in favor of inner-city construction, and then you are often in the noise zone of Schiphol. We should not cover up the nuisance discussion with tricks, but make choices."
Let's see together what is possible around the airport
Build more
The municipalities around Schiphol want to build more, but the strict noise standards around the airport prevent that. This has split the Schiphol Environmental Council in recent years, because aviation does not want new inconveniences.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: July 2, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")