Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Workum will finally get a new culture and community center
Friesch Dagblad
November 17, 2022 Thursday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 407 words
Byline: From our regional editors
Highlight: Workum Workum will most likely get a new cultural center and community center. The council of mayors and aldermen of Súdwest-Fryslân has approved new construction plans for De Klameare.
Body


The Klameare is currently located in the former town hall of the already dissolved municipality of Nijefurd on De Merk. However, the cultural center is encountering major problems there. For example, energy costs are too high, the building is too noisy and the municipality had to provide financial assistance to prevent closure. In July, the board of De Klameare threatened to close the cultural center if the municipality did not hurry up to provide a solution.
The Pipegal
The council of Súdwest-Fryslân wants the new cultural center to be built on the old site of De Pipegaal primary school, on Hearewei/Spoardyk. De Pipegaal recently moved to the Weverswei.
"Warkum, the first city in your municipality, is a great place to be," says Bauke Dam, councilor responsible for spatial development and the Environment Act, among other things.
Dam refers to the council agreement 'Grutsk en tichtby' concluded this year. “In that area we agree with the importance of good forecasts in towns and cities. I also intend to invest in woolen and future-proof fabrics, and to mark the common use thereof, and I will do so."
The council hopes that the municipal council will agree to the new construction plans and that it will guarantee the annual operating deficit of 198,000 euros. The council does commit the obligation to this guarantee that the municipality and the kultuerhús Klameare foundation make a concerted effort to reduce the deficit to 150,000 euros in the long term.
The Klameare has been at its current location since 2016. It ended up there after the previous cultural center, on the Skil and the Nonne-strjitte, disappeared to make room for a marina. Many residents of Workum say they long for how De Klameare used to be.
Management enthusiastically
De Klameare board chairman Tom Houtsma says he is pleased that, after more than three years of preparation, the council has given permission 'for new construction in a beautiful location'.
Houtsma says he is confident that the municipal council also agrees with the plans. Several factions urged a few years ago to look at new construction. According to Alderman Dam, it is now up to the residents of Workum "to ensure that the city's residents start from this new building."
Library
The library located in De Klameare will move to the new location. The council hopes that the new cultural center will be completed in 2025.
Link to PDF

Load Date: November 16, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")