Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Struggle with construction tasks; The municipality of Noordwijk will decide on the dispute with the Environment Agency at the end of this year
Leidsch Dagblad
January 15, 2024 Monday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 1
Length: 521 words
Byline: Wim Wegman
Body


The municipality of Noordwijk will decide on the dispute with the Environment Agency at the end of this year
Noordwijk hopes to have resolved a thorny issue that has been lingering for years before the end of the year: what should happen next with the construction tasks?
Noordwijk
The municipality has been arguing about this for years with the West Holland Environment Agency, which it still manages. A consultancy firm is investigating whether Noordwijk can carry out these tasks itself or outsource them to another organization.
Municipalities are obliged to have environmental tasks carried out by the West Holland Environment Agency (ODWH). The situation is different for their construction tasks, such as issuing building permits and monitoring projects. Noordwijk decided to outsource this work more than fifteen years ago.
This was partly done out of necessity, because the municipality had too few people available to carry out the work properly. In addition, other municipalities would also transfer that work to the ODWH. Only the latter never happened.
Complaints about the service have piled up in recent years. Residents are dissatisfied with the way the department handles their permit applications. Conversely, the ODWH allegedly failed to respond on time to an application on several occasions, meaning that it had to be granted automatically - 'by operation of law', as they say. Furthermore, the service's work turned out to be much more expensive than when Noordwijk still carried out the tasks itself.
Improvements
In the eyes of many Noordwijk politicians, little has come of the promised improvements. The call to take construction tasks back into our own hands has therefore become increasingly louder. But it turns out that it isn't all that simple. Noordwijk must pay a substantial lump sum to the service upon his departure.
Moreover, the question is whether Noordwijk can do the job itself so much better. Bureau Berenschot investigated the work of the ODWH and came to the conclusion that there was actually not much to complain about.
The Noordwijk council is now investigating the alternatives: carrying it out again itself or hiring another organization. That investigation immediately led to some postponement: the Noordwijk civil service could not guarantee before January 1, 2024 that it can take over the construction tasks from the ODWH. After all, the municipality still has to set up the entire organization, and they fear that this is too big a task at a time when they have their hands full with the new Environmental Act. Moreover, new employees are very difficult to find these days. Because the municipality has a one-year notice period, the departure has been postponed at least until after 2025.
Transfer
The second alternative, transferring everything to another organization, also did not work before January 1 of this year. Especially because Noordwijk wants to be sure that she does not throw away old shoes before she is sure she has new ones.
The council wants to further investigate how realistic the high costs that the ODWH charges for departure are.
All in all, the council does not expect to present a proposal until the end of the summer of this year.
Complaints about the service pile up
stands up
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 14, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")