Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Gentle surgeons undesirable when writing law
Leidsch Dagblad
July 16, 2011 Saturday


Copyright 2011 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Length: 640 words
Body


RESUME
Dutch environmental law is in full swing. After a period of legal regulations in sub-areas, in recent years there has been a merging of regulations in the field of environmental law, water law, nature conservation law, construction law and spatial planning law.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The Environmental Law General Provisions Act (Wabo) was introduced on October 1, 2010. A first important step, in which the integrated environmental permit was introduced. The government merged 25 permit systems into one environmental permit.
The Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment, Schultz van Haegen, now wants to go even further in reducing the administrative and administrative burdens. She wants to create one Environmental Act. But beware, the problems cannot be solved with a few adjustments and merging schemes!
An analysis of what has happened so far makes it clear that gentle surgeons are undesirable in this process. And this becomes especially clear when the existing schemes are lumped together. Only then does it become clear how many there are and how poorly they are coordinated. The stairs should be swept clean from above. The government should merge the existing plans in the field of environmental law into one environmental vision. Such a vision forces people to make choices. So don't want to plan everything from above, but only protect real government interests such as military sites, airports, the ecological main structure, etc. This cleaning up is even more necessary in the regulations. The dozens of laws and hundreds of executive orders in the areas of the environment, water, nature and construction are the well-known trees of the forest in which citizens but also civil servants get lost. Here, it is mainly provinces and municipalities that can benefit from simplified and clear rules.
Unnecessary rules should not be swept down a flight of stairs, but they should really be cleared away. In spatial planning, the provinces sometimes take over the regulatory role of the government, by bombarding the municipalities with regulations, for example in spatial regulations or environmental regulations.
There are also some provinces that set a good example by establishing integrated environmental plans with integrated regulations tailored to them. The provinces must leave the municipalities the necessary space for their own policy as laid down in the Municipal Act. The same mistake should not be made here as at government level by wanting to regulate everything. So clearly indicate what exactly the provincial interests are and give the municipalities the space to determine, for example, where an industrial estate should be expanded, a residential area should be added or a recreational area should be developed.
And then there must definitely be a clean sweep on the bottom step as well. Municipalities should make serious efforts to introduce a single plan that replaces the existing plans, programs and memoranda in this area.
as I have just outlined, make agreements about how the board will handle its powers.
What return is expected if the company is allowed to expand in the countryside? Sit down at the table with the neighbor in the town hall when a building environment permit (because that's what it's called nowadays) is being applied for. How can the construction plan be implemented so that everyone can agree with it?
This also requires flexibility on the part of the citizens and this is often available if people feel taken seriously by the administration and civil servants. And there is no need to wait until the new law is in place. Where there is a will there is a way. The renewal can start tomorrow with an adjustment of administrative culture.
Frans Tonnaer is professor of environmental law at the Open University.

Load Date: July 16, 2011, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")