Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Sandcastles
de Volkskrant
January 20, 2016 Wednesday


Copyright 2016 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion and Debate; Page 23
Length: 783 words
Byline: TOINE HEIJMANS
Body


Column - In the corner of Holland
With a project developer on the beach
In Malibu on the Maas there is a palm tree of seventeen meters high on the beach. The crown is tied against frost and wind; He belongs to beach club Zwoel, but it is closed. Winter time, but further along they are already thinking of spring: workmen are pulling a whole new neighborhood of holiday homes out of the sand.

'Do you think so?' Jacko Roest is the first to succeed in building houses under a dune, right on the North Sea, which can be inhabited all year round, day and night. In six weeks the tenants will be able to move in: 74 wooden beach villas, sixty square meters each with rain shower and fiber optic connection, but above all with this: unhindered view of the horizon. Just like in Malibu. The beach, says Jacko, is a place where you can go in any mood, 'gloomy, in love, happy, sad'. That's also why he likes to build there.

Jacko is a project developer. Drives up in a big Audi. Then all kinds of images immediately arise in your head: this is one of those that is coming to annex the Dutch coast, helped by a minister who releases the beach and dunes to the market. Belgian situations are threatening - yesterday nature organizations brought 88 thousand signatures to The Hague, tomorrow there will be a debate about the expansion of the Environmental Act. On the website http://protectedkust.nl the image emerges of a nature reserve usurped by real estate guys who are already building their stakes: beach houses near Noordwijk, beach bungalows near Zandvoort, and those beach villas from Jacko in Hoek van Holland.

He was lucky (or was sharp): the residential area planned here did not go ahead, 'there was an urban development contour, that site became available, so we submitted a plan.' Hoek van Holland is a day trip beach, he says. Three million people come every year. They want something. When they look to the left they see the steamy port area of ​​Rotterdam and the tall container ships sailing up and down the Nieuwe Waterweg. If they look to the right they see a protected Natura 2000 dune area. 'Beach visits are definitely not going to decrease,' he says, 'make no mistake about the needs of all the people who live here.'

He leases the beach from the municipality for 17 euros per square meter per year. 'Quality coastal development', he calls his houses, a 'year-round product' and 'completely cradle to cradle'. Language of the real estate man. But then he says: 'I agree with those nature organizations. We have to prevent it from becoming a mess. You shouldn't build here forever. This is how things went wrong in Belgium. You need to keep it flexible and moveable. My houses have been here for a maximum of 25 years. That is a purely temporary business model. This is how you control the future.'

The real estate man, a conservationist?

Certainly, says Jacko. More than you think - the consultation he has almost constantly with, for example, the Dune Conservation Foundation is necessary from a business perspective, 'but also because we have to protect nature'. "There needs to be a coastal vision," says Jacko. For decades, the Netherlands has mainly been concerned with protecting against water; that's done so now it's time to think about the future. 'The unique selling point of this area is nature. If you add good facilities, there is potential for tourism. That's how you should look at it. Where it is possible, where it is not possible. It is possible in Hoek van Holland - we are already part of the industry. But further down here in 's Gravezande is the nature reserve. It's not possible there.'

Points to the chimneys, windmills and container bins on the horizon: 'If you zone it properly, there is room for everyone.'

Jacko understands the campaigning conservationists, 'although they pretend that a lot of concrete is going to come along the coast and that is not the case'. That they portray him as an enemy - 'oh, that's part of the game. Greenpeace also does this: taking very extreme positions, but with good intentions.'

Talks about the blue sea thistle that he wants to plant near the beach villas. He says that he is building a completely new dune behind Malibu on the Maas, 'this way we add natural values ​​to this area. It costs money, but it will be more beautiful, and tourists will also benefit from that. That's how everything goes together.'

Spots of light fall through the clouds onto the sea. I ask if he is a fast boy. Jacko laughs. 'This is not for fast guys. For quick money you should buy land at a train station, not build on the beach. All this is difficult and it yields too little.'

t.heijmans@volkskrant.nl
'I agree with those nature organizations. We have to prevent it from becoming a mess'

View the original page: page 23

Graphic

 
The first beach villas under a dune, right on the North Sea.
Jacko Roest, project developer, is building Malibu on the Maas.
The chic beach houses in Malibu in the United States.

Load Date: January 19, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")