Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Change something yourself
Friesch Dagblad
March 13, 2021 Saturday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group BVAll Rights Reserved


Length: 1808 words
Body


W
y sat no three oeren foar in byldskerm. The stamps are falling on me or and I am actually in love with my Latyn." It was already a quarter to eleven in the evening on December 16 last year and the municipal council of De Fryske Marren was still meeting. Corona time means sitting behind a screen for a long time instead of in the meeting room. FNP faction chairman Jan Volbeda had had it for a while.
Mayor Fred Veenstra had just previously proposed to postpone the last two of ten agenda items to the next meeting. In his New Year's speech afterwards, he argued for work relief for council members. "Meetings are fun, but the role of a representative is broader and there must be time for that," he said.
The work of a councilor is taking more and more time. In 2007, council members spent an average of fourteen hours on their duties, in addition to their job, family or studies, in 2017 this was 15.9 hours and in 2019 17.17 hours, according to the most recent National Council Survey. In the largest municipalities this is 24 hours.
Sixteen o'clock
Anne Merkuur (photo bottom left) of GroenLinks in De Fryske Marren estimates that as party leader she spends about sixteen hours a week on council work. "It varies, sometimes you are busy for two evenings, sometimes four. This includes the council meetings, but also the preparation. The faction meetings, periodic consultations, all the reading and consultations."
The average was significantly increased when the council had to decide in 2019 whether it wanted to allow sand extraction off the Gaasterland coast (photo above). “I really had to take a few days off for that. It was an important point for us and it was a lot of work to prepare it properly and to properly substantiate the argumentation legally."
Her congregation now meets every two weeks. That working method is being overhauled. "We want to reduce the meeting pressure somewhat."
Merkuur works three days as a linguistic researcher at De Fryske Akadamy and one day as a lecturer at the University of Groningen. She tries to do council work in the evenings and weekends as much as possible. "But in between you also get phone calls and emails. You can't avoid that." At the time of the interview, she had other management pressure behind her, at the local ice club. "A few years ago I joined, but for years there was no ice. Now there is. I have no ice taken, because I am also really a skater."
More out of the town hall
She is not really satisfied with the time she can spend on her role as a representative. “It is a lot and always too little. You would prefer to put more time into it, visit residents and get out of the town hall more. But there isn't really enough time for that, because I also have a job and a family. I cannot put 25 hours into this work like some council members. We have even more councilors with young children. It's quite tough, you get home from work at five o'clock, pick up your child, eat together, put them to bed and then drive - before corona time - to the town hall in Joure."
Still, it's worth the investment to her. “It's great that you can contribute and change something yourself. That's what you do it for. Like sand mining, I'm glad that's over. If you have a council that functions well, as is the case, then you can do great things."
Changes due to dualization
In 2002, the dualization of municipal politics was introduced, as a result of which the roles and tasks of the municipal executive and council were separated. Just as ministers are outside the House of Representatives, aldermen are no longer members of the municipal council. Council members are supported by their own clerk and an audit office, which conducts policy research.
The idea was that council members could then spend at least half of their time on contact with residents and social organizations, instead of on administrative tasks, such as reading memoranda and reports, meetings and consultations. That has not yet been achieved. The National Council survey shows that almost 70 percent of the time is still spent on reading and meeting work.
You won't solve this by having fewer meetings, says director John Bijl of the Pericles Institute, which advises municipal councils and factions on working more effectively. "Unfortunately, democracy and efficiency will always get in each other's way. The most efficient way is if everyone does what one person decides, but that is not the society we should want."
He endorses the call for work relief. With the decentralization (including healthcare and youth care), municipalities and therefore also municipal councils were given more responsibilities and complex files. "The new environmental law will soon be added, which will demand a lot from municipal councils. Decentralization ensured that municipalities could make more specific healthcare policy closer to the citizen, but paradoxically we have at the same time moved to larger municipalities, with a larger surface area and fewer representatives."
Larger range of tasks
Because in 2002 there were 9952 council members, in 2012 there were 9175 and now approximately 8500. The number of inhabitants determines the number of seats. For example, fifty seats disappeared in Fryslân during the 2017 reorganization (for seven municipalities). Bijl: “Although it concerns the same area. The range of tasks has therefore been expanded, but no people have been added. In the meantime, the question is whether grandma will still receive support stockings from the municipality. Such decisions have been taken with more distance than council members would like."
In the largest municipalities, there are calls to make council work a full-time job, with more compensation, so that they can devote all their time to carrying out their supervisory and representative role. A difficult dilemma, says Bijl. "Then you no longer have a lay board and you prefer to have council members who are active in society." He rather advocates an increase in the number of council members so that the tasks can be better distributed.
Be more selective
Small groups would in any case do well to be more selective in the topics they want to debate. "They will do that with pain in their hearts, but it is better to keep it manageable. Otherwise, after four years you will discover that you have not been able to achieve anything, for yourself or for the voter."
This is, among other things, how the three-member faction (two council members, one committee member) of GroenLinks in De Fryske Marren approaches it. Merkuur: "On certain points, I rely on the expertise of fellow council members who, for example, are well versed in financial documents of the sheltered employment sector. You don't have to go into all the details everywhere, not everything is political. If you know you agree, you can work better together. You have to know where you want to cross swords. We have less manpower anyway. We try to focus on areas where we want to make a difference."
One of the most important improvements that municipal councils can make is to take the initiative more often to discuss the principles for new policy, Bijl says. “Councils still too often wait for a proposal from the council and then think about it. Outline more clearly what you expect from the final policy, which will provide more direction to the council. If you discuss this with each other earlier, you will save a lot of time. The city council itself determines what the agenda is about."
In research by the Dutch Association for Council Members, 86 percent of the council members surveyed indicated that they experienced time and work pressure to a greater or lesser extent. For almost a third of the members who quit after the 2018 elections, the high workload was the reason. This was especially true for younger council members (between 25 and 35 years old).
Make it more attractive
How do you keep council work attractive for all age groups? Jesper Kraakman (23) from Boijl (photo bottom right) has an idea about that. "If you want to make it more attractive for working people, you have to ensure that time is managed more efficiently. You can also submit advice questions in advance. And preferably hand in documents on time, so that you don't have to look at them at the last minute."
In November last year he stopped as a councilor for the VVD in Weststellingwerf. He is pursuing a master's degree in public administration at the University of Groningen and no longer envisioned the combination with his council work. "I have to complete my studies."
His time investment was between fourteen and eighteen hours, he estimates. He experienced work pressure. "But I also think that is a rather negative word, work pressure is also part of it. And you get compensation for it. The crowds came in bursts, for example a motion that came in advance while you have a lecture in the morning. You see them passing by and you have to do something with them. Please read and discuss with the group."
He joined the council at the age of twenty. ,,Very cool. It was a lot of fun, but for me it was better to step into the background for now. You'll soon be working on it two evenings a week. You not only have the meetings, but also the information meetings in villages and faction meetings. I thought, I can do half of it, but it's too good a task for that. I wanted to do it 100 percent."
Come have coffee
The next municipal elections are in 2022. It is a challenge to recruit new party members, notes Anne Merkuur. “When I tell them how many hours you can spend on it per week, the conversation often ends there. It's difficult to sell that to people. Still, I say: don't be deterred. The work is supported by the people who do it. Any contribution you can make is welcome, you do not have to put in that number of hours immediately. You can also participate in the committee or support. Just come by and have a cup of coffee. Well, now digital."
John Bijl: "People who become councilors do so because they want to contribute to society. They are inveterate do-gooders. Do you want to recruit more people? Then show what you have achieved as a councilor, whether it is that square that has been made more friendly with your efforts or the bicycle policy that you have put on the agenda where cars gained the upper hand."
Kraakman's ambition has not diminished, he remains politically active. "Just not now as a councilor." With public administration, he already had some background in reading documents. But public speaking and negotiating, he also learned that. "A fun, educational time. And I will never look at a roadside the same way again. or public green spaces."
 I will never look at a roadside or public greenery in the same way again
 Meetings are fun, but the role of a councilor is broader and there must be time for that

Load Date: March 31, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")