Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Place the peat meadow area near Leeuwarden
Friesch Dagblad
August 25, 2021 Wednesday


Copyright 2021 NDC media group B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 579 words
Byline: Geu Liège and

Fokelien van der Meulen
Highlight: Despite critical reactions, the pre-environmental plan for the southern part of the municipality of Leeuwarden remains unchanged on the agenda of the municipal council. The piece is insufficient for CDA and VVD. The separate (restrictive) status of the peat meadow should be deleted.
Body


The Environmental Act will come into force in the course of next year. The aim of this law is to provide more space for initiatives. Space for customization. Fewer rules. Easier for residents. And faster and better decision-making. In the spirit of this law, the municipality of Leeuwarden is working on an environmental plan for the southern rural area of ​​the municipality.
To gauge the first reactions, a so-called pre-environmental plan was drawn up. The responses (bundled in the building blocks for the rural area) were not pleasant. Unrest, uncertainty and ambiguity predominate. And we can imagine this well. The future of farming - passed down from generation to generation - is at stake. We can't let it get that far.
As the municipal factions of VVD and CDA, we have serious doubts as to whether this pre-environmental plan is entirely in the spirit of the Environmental Act. Instead of fewer rules, there are sometimes more and/or stricter rules. Unlike now, for example, goat farms will soon no longer be permitted. But our biggest criticism focuses on the peat meadow area.
The pre-environmental plan works with four area types: village, nature, agricultural and peat meadow. We, like the dozens of farmers in the area, do not like the stricter rules for the peat meadow area type compared to the agricultural area type. Our criticism is threefold: no additional rules on top of the provincial rules; avoid arbitrarily chosen boundaries between agricultural and peat pasture; involve the experts (read: farmers) from the area.
Not even more rules
The province of Fryslân, together with Wetterskip Fryslân, is in close consultation with farmers about the provincial Peat Meadow Program. This program offers sufficient appropriate measures for the area. In addition to these provincial rules for the peat meadow area, the municipality should not bother the passionate and hardworking local farmers with stricter and oppressive rules.
Moreover, the geographical boundaries between peat meadow and agricultural land are drawn arbitrarily. Our working visits to farmers in the area confirm this. Give farmers the space to do business. Avoid randomly drawn boundaries and apply the same rules as for the agricultural area type. They maintain a level playing field for every farmer.
Robbery of farmers
Finally, the farmers have been surprised with the plans for the area. There is insufficient room for participation. As a result, farmers do not feel heard. We therefore call on the municipality: rely on the facilitating spirit of the environmental law and enter into discussions with the farmers. What do you need to do good business and what can we as a municipality do in this regard?
The subject was removed from the council agenda before the summer recess, because some council factions felt overwhelmed by the pace and reactions. With a new political season on the horizon, the piece - completely unchanged - is once again on the council agenda. For us the piece is insufficient.
As far as we are concerned, the solution is simple: delete the area type peat meadow and apply the same rules to this area as in the agricultural area type. This creates peace and clarity once and for all.
Geu Luik is a municipal councilor in Leeuwarden for the VVD. Fokelien van der Meulen is a CDA councilor in the Leeuwarden council
 Avoid randomly drawn boundaries and apply the same rules as for the agricultural area type
Link to PDF

Load Date: October 20, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")