Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Keep Zoeterwoude liveable'; budget Finances in order but still worried
Leidsch Dagblad
October 20, 2020 Tuesday
City


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 10
Length: 506 words
Byline: Gerard van der Hoeven
Body


budget Finances in order but still worried
On a budget of 24 million euros, Zoeterwoude will have an amount of 117,000 euros left in 2021. Yet property taxes will increase by 7.5 percent.
Zoeterwoude
 That extra amount goes into a separate reserve for the costs of the new Bernardus school and reorganization of the Haasbroek sports park. Although the financial situation for 2021 looks good, the flag is still not flying. After all, there are many uncertainties. For example, about the amount that Zoeterwoude receives from the central government to carry out all kinds of tasks. The government cuts back on that amount every year. And while the government transfers tasks to the municipality without adding the necessary financial resources.
More inhabitants
CDA councilor Ton de Gans: "Zoeterwoude now has approximately 8,800 inhabitants. We will be busy building in the coming years and will grow to approximately 11,500 residents in the next four years. Then we receive more tax money. However, there are also uncertainties. For example, it is unclear what the consequences will be for our organization when it comes to the Environmental Act and the Construction Quality Assurance Act that will come into effect in 2022. The energy transition also has a major impact. When people now ask whether they will be allowed to build without a permit, we do not yet have an answer. Nor does it answer the question of whether it is wise to purchase a new central heating boiler."
Bernardusschool
The need for a new Bernardus school is increasing in the Rijndijk residential area. On the one hand because the school is very outdated, and on the other hand because the growth in the number of inhabitants on the Rijndijk is significant. The municipal council wants children who live in Verde Vista or will soon be living in Verde Vista to go to the Bernardus school. However, it will still take some time before the new school is ready. All preparations will be made in 2021 so that the green light is given and construction can start in 2022, and the school will then be sufficient to accommodate all students in the coming years. That is why the student forecasts are monitored extra closely.
That is wise because the forecasts for the construction of Het Avontuur primary school in the village center turned out to be incorrect. The school is now far too small and that is why two temporary classrooms will be installed at the beginning of 2021. "Almost certainly two more and perhaps even four more classrooms will be added after that."
By maintaining the greenery and preserving the swimming pool, for example, the council wants to keep as many facilities as possible available to residents. The completely different design of the Haasbroek sports park is also a good example of this. This will be quite an operation, because in addition to the associations that are already housed there, the scouting and tug-of-war clubs will also be housed there. Finally, councilor Ton de Gans: "I experience that in Zoeterwoude almost everyone is on the same page. This way, with the input of residents and companies, we can keep the municipality livable."
I experience that in Zoeterwoude almost everyone is on the same page
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 19, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")