Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Zoeterwoude wants a third councilor
Leidsch Dagblad
January 4, 2023 Wednesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 4
Length: 408 words
Byline: Wim Wegman
Body


Zoeterwoude
Moniek van Sandick will become the new councilor for the CDA in Zoeterwoude. Fans of current CDA councilor Paul Olthof don't have to be shocked, he will just stay put. B and W van Zoeterwoude propose to expand the council with one alderman, from two to three. The city council will consider this on January 19.
According to the council, the expansion is necessary to maintain administrative strength in Zoeterwoude. The municipality is growing rapidly and has been given a lot of tasks by the government. In this way, the social domain and the Environmental Act are decentralized.
The organization of the municipality is growing along with all these extra jobs, and that is becoming too much for the current council of one mayor and two aldermen. The expansion did not come completely out of the blue. In their coalition agreement, CDA and VVD have already mentioned the possibility of expanding the number of aldermen.
As the largest coalition party, the CDA may provide the additional councilor. The Christian Democrats' choice fell on Moniek van Sandick, currently a CDA member of the Provincial Council of South Holland. She will have the social domain in her portfolio. Van Sandick previously served as a municipal councilor for her party in Leiden for twelve years. During that period, she was responsible for the social domain for eight years. She has also been coordinator of the Leergeld Foundation in Leiden.
The CDA says on its website that the party is happy with the arrival of Van Sandick. Group chairman Astrid Coene: "Caring for each other and caring for our environment is a spearhead for the CDA Zoeterwoude. With her regional and substantive experience, the well-being of our residents is in good hands with her."
Eligible
Van Sandick stood for election for the CDA in the Provincial Council elections in March. She is now abandoning that place. The future councilor says he looks forward to collaboration with residents, organizations and the municipal council in Zoeterwoude 'for those who need it'. "I'd like to roll up my sleeves for that!"
According to councilor Paul Olthof, apart from transferring responsibility for the social domain, there will be no major shifts in portfolio allocations. "Maybe a few small additions to make portfolios more logical, but no more than that."
The Council still has to agree to the college proposal
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 3, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")