Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Concerns about delays in construction plans in Teylingen
Leidsch Dagblad
April 7, 2022 Thursday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 4
Length: 459 words
Byline: Sjaak Smakman
Body


Teylingen
 There is a real chance that construction plans in Teylingen will be delayed. That warning came from policy officer Jan Zandstra on Monday during an information evening for the new municipal council.
Ironically, Zandstra correctly answered the question of how the process of zoning plans can be accelerated in order to build faster. The new Environmental Act is intended to ensure this by merging a number of currently separate permits, but the practice has proven to be so unruly that its introduction has already been postponed several times. This mainly concerns digital systems that are still faltering.
The plan now is to introduce the law on October 1, but a more likely date is January 1 next year. And according to Zandstra, the question remains whether the new law will provide the intended improvement. “That will be a very big challenge. I'm concerned about how that law will turn out."
It is not so much the zoning plans and the associated procedures that are the problem - a period of nine months to a year is sufficient for this - but what is needed to make a plan. "The burden of proof is really very high," said Zandstra. He pointed to the Flower Garden plan. "We had to update the nitrogen calculation three or four times in the past year because there was a new calculator. And then there is the flora and fauna. An ecologist visited the area three times for the bats."
House prices
A major hurdle is also the actual feasibility of the plans. It is a 'quite difficult time' to actually build, according to Zandstra: not only do house prices continue to rise, this also applies to construction prices. The Flower Garden at the former STV complex and the dance school on Parklaan-Narcissenlaan in Sassenheim is an example. There should be 86 homes there: 50 apartments and 36 single-family homes. At the end of last year, Stek purchased the land for a complex of approximately thirty social apartments, which should be ready by 2024.
The municipality is now tendering for the rest of the project. The municipality wants to make a choice in the coming months which developer can start working on a plan for the 56 owner-occupied homes. "But at the moment contractors simply don't quote prices. In turn, they are also faced with great uncertainty: will they be able to get enough sand and gravel and at what price?"
The government wants to build 100,000 homes per year, which according to Zandstra is 'a gigantic ambition'. “I still have to see what comes of that. You can be optimistic about that, but in practice there are five to seven years between making a plan and building it. Then you are not talking about very complicated plans."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 6, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")