Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=So it was built next to a fireworks store
NRC.NEXT
February 10, 2020 Monday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 6
Length: 1764 words
Byline: Jorg Leijten

Merijn Rengers
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
Spatial planning research
Since lower authorities have become responsible for spatial planning, dangerous situations have arisen, the inspectorate writes in a report that was not allowed to appear.
COMPLETE TEXT:
          They can hardly believe their eyes, the civil servants who have to check whether municipalities and provinces adhere to the agreements and national standards for spatial planning. It is mid-May 2019 and their employer, the Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate (ILT), has just put the 2018 annual report online.
There is a reassuring passage in it, on page 29. Four sentences that do not arouse suspicion among Members of Parliament or environmental or heritage organizations. The bottom line is that things are going well with decentralization of national spatial planning policy. There is no reason to worry.
But the inspectors of the 'Space Team' - a small department of the ILT, which employs a total of 1,100 people - are indeed very concerned. Many things have gone wrong since the central government increasingly delegated spatial planning to lower authorities around the turn of the century. Important tasks have not been taken up by municipalities and provinces, resulting in dangerous situations, they write in the summer of 2018 in the alarming report The safeguarding of national spatial interests.
The piece was never published and the Inspectorate and the responsible Ministry of the Interior clashed over the conclusions, which were also distorted. NRC recently obtained the 'internal document' after an appeal to the Government Information (Public Access) Act (Wob) and is now publishing it (on nrc.nl).
Dangerous and annoying situations
The piece shows that the ILT has major concerns about the ability of municipalities and provinces to regulate national issues. Take the storage of explosive substances. After the fireworks disaster in 2000 in the Roombeek district of Enschede, policymakers vowed never to do this again. Houses may no longer be built too close to the storage of explosive materials - fireworks, ammunition. Safety zones must prevent this.
However, municipalities must then record those zones. If nothing about this is included in a zoning plan, the way is still clear for housing construction, for example.
The ILT examined almost forty of these types of zoning plans. The conclusion: in three quarters of the cases nothing had been arranged, which meant that homes could still be built next to such a storage facility. This turned out to have happened in a third of the plans examined, for example in the Gelderland town of Druten. According to the inspectorate, "action has now been taken".
Or take the large, wide pipes that transport hazardous substances such as petroleum, nitrogen and CO2. The (current and future) routes for these pipelines have been designated throughout the Netherlands. Building on top of such a place is undesirable and possibly dangerous. The ILT's conclusion: this is not taken into account in two-thirds of the zoning plans. The same applies to the mandatory noise zones around military airfields. This turned out not to be properly arranged in ten of the 35 zoning plans.
The protection of groundwater - no substances may be discharged that could affect the quality of drinking water - the smooth flow of shipping traffic, the clutter of the landscape and the protection of heritage are also not properly regulated, according to the report. Simply because many municipalities and provinces do not take "national interests" into account.
The report arises from the need of ILT inspectors to express the common thread in their findings. To see how national spatial planning policy works. So a judgment on decentralization.
The outcome of this exercise is bleak. The decentralization has generally turned out poorly, the ILT said in the report. Dangerous or annoying situations exist in many areas.
Conclusions are not allowed to be made public
The team of inspectors responsible for this would therefore like to bring the report to the attention of Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs, D66), who is responsible for spatial planning. She talks to the House of Representatives, social groups and international organizations such as the EU and UNESCO when "the external safety of institutions, nature protection and cultural heritage" is at stake.
The leadership of the ILT, which anticipates fuss about the report, is not in favor of publication. National spatial planning is becoming less important for the inspectorate, due to decentralization. What is also a factor, according to NRC sources: negotiations are ongoing with the ministry about an additional budget for the inspection and that process should not be disrupted.
As a compromise, it has been decided not to make the report public but to designate it as an 'internal document'. The intention is that the hard conclusions will be included in the annual report.
However, if a draft of the annual report reaches the Ministry of the Interior (BZK), a conflict still arises, according to an internal document. Senior BZK officials informed the inspectorate that they did not request the report. Publication is not an issue and the BZK "does not agree" with the critical conclusions.
In the subsequent discussions, the ILT drew the short straw. The 2018 ILT annual report contains a conclusion that is at odds with the report's findings and that cannot arouse suspicion among parliament or civil society organizations. "Many matters that the ILT supervises require integration into spatial plans. [...] Signals were drawn up about this between 2012 and 2018. In 2018, these signals were bundled in The safeguarding of national spatial interests. The impression is that the actual integration is sufficient."
Inspection officers view the course of events with great surprise. Why should the critical report not be made public? In 2012, it was legally established that the central government will carry out so-called "system or theme-oriented studies" that should provide information about the "actual application of legislation and regulations in zoning plans and provincial regulations". In their opinion, the ILT did no more than its job.
'Ministry misleads Parliament'
There is also anger about the course of events surrounding the distorted conclusions in the annual report. The inspectors of the 'Space Team' feel misunderstood and see the interference as a violation of their independence. In this way, the ministry and the ILT leadership keep unwelcome facts out of publicity, they complain to their manager. Moreover, they believe the ministry is misleading the House of Representatives. He has no idea what's going wrong.
"The bad thing about this unpublished report is that it shows that municipalities do not adopt hard national standards on important matters such as explosion hazard," says Flip ten Cate, director of the Federation of Spatial Quality, the trade organization whose most welfare and monument committees are in The Netherlands is a member. "We are moving towards a system in spatial planning that is built on trust. But this report shows that you cannot simply rely on everyone's good intentions."
According to him, the ministry "cannot maintain that this report is unwanted or not ordered". "It is actually a legal task of the inspectorate to check whether the spatial planning system works. The inspectorate must have the freedom to do so, if desired." and unwanted, about being able to report."
 The clash over the ILT's critical report is related to the introduction of the Environmental Act. The Senate will vote on this law on Tuesday, which must replace, decentralize and digitize all existing legislation on spatial planning from 2021. Municipalities and software suppliers have major doubts about this operation.
The Environmental Act is the final part of the government's many years of divesting itself of spatial planning tasks. While large districts such as Leidsche Rijn in Utrecht and Ypenburg in The Hague were left off the government drawing table in the 1980s, The Hague retreated further and further from the 1990s onwards. The National Planning Service disappeared in 2001 and the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (VROM) was split up in 2010. Tasks ended up with the Ministry of the Interior and the current Infrastructure and Water Management. The VROM Inspectorate, once the guardian of national rules in the field of spatial planning, was decimated and merged into the Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate.
“There was a feeling: this country is just about finished. Perhaps a piece of rail or road was needed somewhere, but the most important choices had been made," says Co Verdaas, professor of area development at TU Delft. "The policy was decentralized on that wave."
However, there remained a number of tasks that the central government imposed on lower authorities. Municipalities and provinces were now required to monitor these functions in their zoning plans, but in practice this often goes wrong. Verdaas: “Many municipalities made cuts during times of crisis. With fewer people you now face major challenges related to housing construction, energy transition and climate change. No municipality can do this on its own."
Comment? research@nrc.nl
The inspectorate must be able to report freely
Flip ten Cate, director of the Federation of Spatial Quality
There was a feeling of: this country is about finished
Co Verdaas professor of area development
The Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate (ILT) said in a response that "it was decided internally" not to publish the report on safeguarding national interests because it covered a "largely outdated period". According to the ILT, the passage in the annual report has been "condensed to such an extent that nuances have been lost and the entire document is therefore no longer done justice." The inspectorate states that "only the overall conclusion" has been included "that there is in fact no major consequences or risks when incorporated into spatial plans. That could have been more extensive." The conclusions were well summarized in a later report, according to the ILT.
The Ministry of the Interior (BZK) says "based on the draft annual report" it has asked "substantive questions" about a passage that refers to a report not submitted to the BZK on the safeguarding of spatial interests". "The ILT is responsible for the content of the annual report." The spokesperson did not respond to the question of whether the House of Representatives was misled.
Link to PDF

Notes

Comment? research@nrc.nl

Graphic

 
The Roombeek district in Enschede, rebuilt after the fireworks disaster, in 2017. Policymakers agreed after the disaster that houses should no longer be placed too close to the storage of explosive materials. That often happened anyway.
Photo Marco van Middelkoop/HH

Load Date: February 9, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")