Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Municipality of Alphen aan den Rijn is a forerunner'
Leidsch Dagblad
October 24, 2018 Wednesday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 009
Length: 605 words
Byline: Tessa the Alarm
Body


  Leiden The housing shortage in the Netherlands, especially in the Randstad, is high. Some municipalities are therefore taking initiatives, for example, to redevelop industrial estates for housing. Under current environmental laws and regulations, this often proves difficult, if not impossible. The Environmental Act, which will come into effect in 2021, offers more opportunities.
Loesanne van der Geest conducted research into the intermediate step on the way to 2021: the zoning plan with a broadened scope. “That is a good instrument to practice for the Environmental Act,” says De Warmondse. Her graduation research on the distribution of (environmental) usable space in the zoning plan with a broadened scope in preparation for the Environmental Act has been nominated for the annual Rachel Carson thesis prize. The prize for the best Dutch university and HBO graduation works in the field of sustainability and the environment is an initiative of VVM, a network of environmental professionals. The prize is named after the American ecologist Rachel Carson. She wrote the book 'Silent Spring' in 1962. That was the first step towards awareness of environmental problems in the US and Europe. Van der Geest, who graduated from HBO law at Leiden University of Applied Sciences, is the only nominee in the HBO category after the preselection. However, it is not yet certain that she will actually receive the prize on Friday, November 9. “It has also sometimes not been awarded, because the jury felt that the nominees offered too little quality,” says van der Geest. She conducted her research on behalf of the municipality of Alphen aan de Rijn and LivingLab South Holland. Alphen is working on the redevelopment of the Rijnhaven Oost area, an old industrial estate that is partly dilapidated. The existing inland port is also no longer used for commercial shipping. Alphen wants to transform Rijnhaven Oost into a mixed urban area. Living, businesses and recreation (including pleasure boating in the port) must coexist and the area must become attractive for all users, existing and new. Van der Geest: “Rijnhaven Oost in a very nice area. But under the old laws it would be extremely difficult to redevelop it. That is why Alphen aan den Rijn decided to be one of the first municipalities in the Netherlands to work with the zoning plan with an expanded scope. Alphen is truly a forerunner.” In the old situation, or actually still existing until 2021, environmental law is fragmented across sixty laws. Van der Geest: “It is extremely difficult for citizens, but also for civil servants and developers, to find a way around this. The Environmental Act aims for more flexibility and cooperation. From 2021, there will be one integral law, which will replace those sixty. In addition, there will be one environmental plan per municipality, instead of the current postage stamp zoning plans. There will be more room for customization. The intention is also for the environmental plan to become more global. It no longer necessarily has to be determined that a house will be built at that precise location. The environmental plan looks at the entire area.” Until then, there is a zoning plan with a broadened scope in order to get used to the new law. Van der Geest investigated how this instrument can be used to distribute the (environmental) usage space as best as possible. Van der Geest: “In the Environmental Act, the quality of life of the citizen is more of a priority. But it is important that companies' existing rights are respected." Her advice: "Sit down with everyone on time and engage a team of experts in different areas, such as sound architects."

Load Date: October 23, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")