Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Aldermen extra logical'
Leidsch Dagblad
June 21, 2018 Thursday
Leiden and region


Copyright 2018 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 002
Length: 639 words
Byline: Henk Runhaar
Body


  Senator Jan Nagel breaks trend: 'Government is lagging behind'
Amsterdam Appointing more aldermen seems to be a national trend. Hilversum and Den Helder are outliers in the circulation area of ​​the publisher of this newspaper. With seven councilors each, these municipalities with around 90,000 (Hilversum) and 56,000 inhabitants are almost the same size as Amsterdam. Excellent development, says the councilors' association. Dramatic for politics and the population, argues Senator Jan Nagel (50Plus).
Expanding the number of aldermen is a logical consequence of the additional tasks that have been assigned to the municipalities in the past period. This is what deputy director Jeroen van Gool of the Aldermen's Association says. “An additional action. Municipalities are now noticing how much extra work, for example, the social domain requires. And there's more to come. Think of the Environmental Act, the need to live an energy-neutral life. Municipalities can make a more realistic assessment and therefore want more aldermen, I hear on the left and right." Another factor is the fragmentation of politics at local level. Van Gool: “It is more difficult to find majorities. Often more parties are needed for a coalition. It is logical that they want to participate in decision-making at the council table." The more aldermen, the more expensive, the Aldermen's Association also knows. But Van Gool believes that allocating extra tax money for good municipal administrators is more than justifiable. “Residents have very high expectations of the government. It is an illusion that you can deliver quality for a measly penny. It may cost a bit, but it should be an honor for municipalities to skimp on aldermen." Too many aldermen is not possible, Van Gool explains. "The law caps the number at 20 percent or in certain cases 25 percent of the number of municipal council members."
Big money
 Van Gool finds the discussion about the salary costs of aldermen absurd. "Seven out of ten aldermen will lose their salary or receive the same salary as in their previous job. You don't become an alderman for big money." The maximum alderman salary of 137,000 euros is only paid in the four major cities, Van Gool emphasizes. "Of the 1,500 aldermen, more than a thousand are in the lowest category of just over 60,000 euros." Cutting that 'modest' salary by appointing aldermen part-time is what the Aldermen's Association calls 'worrying'. Van Gool: "Every councilor puts his heart and soul into it and easily meets the 36 official hours for a full-time job. The day off for informal care or Father's or Mother's Day is also peppered with emails, telephone calls and questions."
Fumbling
More councilors is never a good idea, is Jan Nagel's opinion. This spring he was a formateur in Den Helder, where he thought it would take some effort to arrive at the old number of five aldermen. "Because of bungling, they now have a coalition with seven parties and seven councilors. That is not in the interests of the residents of Den Helder, they are purely party interests." Nagel does not dispute that there are more issues that require attention from the municipality. “On the other hand, a lot has been automated and information is much easier to distribute. In this respect, the government lags behind developments in the business community. You can't imagine that we still have to go to a counter to withdraw money? And you get caricatures. In Hilversum, the council no longer fits behind the lecture table in the council chamber. Fragmentation of portfolios creates woolliness, the experienced politician warns. "Civil servants put the interests of their own councilor in mind, there needs to be many more meetings. Support, salary, redundancy pay, pension, are all added. We really need to stop justifying this nonsense.”

Load Date: June 20, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")