Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Neighboring villages: more together without merger; Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout deal
Leidsch Dagblad
November 26, 2015 Thursday


Copyright 2015 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: Region
Length: 310 words
Byline: paul devlieger , p.de.vlieger@hollandmediacombination.nl
Body


by Paul de Vlieger
Noordwijk/Noordwijkerhout The official merger between Teylingen, Lisse and Hillegom, with effect from January 2017, is driving the two Bollenstreek villages that do not participate into each other's arms. Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout will collaborate more closely in many areas. But unlike the other three, they see no benefit in an official merger, let alone a complete merger.
        As with the Bollen-3, reduction of vulnerability and efficiency benefits are key drivers for close collaboration. But Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout see nothing in the complete merger of official departments. "We do not believe in that concept," says Noordwijkerhout mayor Gerrit Goedhart. “Teylingen, Lisse and Hillegom fixate on an end goal and that may also cost something. We see more in organic growth in official cooperation. And we'll see where that leads." Whether that could ultimately lead to a merger of the two, Goedhart does not comment. "That would be speculative."
        Goedhart thinks it is logical that Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout have sought rapprochement with each other after the developments 'on the other side of the Leidsevaart'. "Noordwijkerhout does not want to participate in the merger that the other three are entering into and even after studying their 'plan of action', we remain of that opinion. Then you seek refuge in a municipality that thinks the same way."
        Noordwijkerhout and Noordwijk have initially identified four topics on which 'collegial cooperation' will take shape. These are: automation, the social domain (youth care, social support, sheltered employment), enforcement & supervision and the new Environmental Act to be introduced in 2018, which will replace existing laws in the areas of construction, the environment, water, spatial planning and nature. bundles.

Load Date: November 25, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")