Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Computer problem in the municipality of Leiden leads to delays in construction plans
Leidsch Dagblad
February 16, 2021 Tuesday
Dune and Bulb Region


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 4
Length: 273 words
Byline: Loman Leefmans
Body


To lead
The handling of small construction plans in Leiden is being delayed. Problems with the municipal computer systems are the main cause of this. This has already led to complaints, the city council reported in a letter to the city council.
These are the aftereffects of a new computer system introduced at the municipality last year. This functioned excellently during the trial period, but subsequently showed glitches. As a result, there are still delays in processing (construction) permits and parking fines, among other things. Some of this even has to be done by hand.
The municipality formed a crisis team in December to curb the nuisance, and reports that in any case 'no legal standards have been exceeded' due to the digital problems. But the introduction of the extensive Environmental Act is imminent and the question is whether Leiden computer programs will be ready for it in time. 27 kinks in the cable have been discovered.
That is why we are working feverishly on the problem and experts have been hired for this purpose. The city council hopes that the computer coast will be safe by March. The mayor and aldermen do not yet dare to estimate how much it will cost the municipality to solve the problems, partly because a new investigation has to be carried out.
Major construction plans and hasty interventions, such as issuing permits for the corona test street and vaccination hall, do not suffer from the technical issue. "In the category of smaller construction plans, the processing time may have increased," the city council writes.
Hurried snacks don't suffer
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 16, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")