Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Corona, gas extraction, inflation: whatever the reason, in the Zuiderpark they are angry with the government
de Volkskrant
March 13, 2023 Monday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 4, 5
Length: 656 words
Byline: FLEUR DAMEN
Highlight: Thousands of demonstrators expressed their dissatisfaction in The Hague on Saturday afternoon about a wide range of issues, from the nitrogen rules to the Environmental Act. Wilders and Baudet were present, hoping to make an electoral contribution.
Body


Report: Zuiderpark manifestation
Shaking his head, car mechanic Mike (36) watches on Saturday afternoon as PVV leader Geert Wilders on stage in The Hague's Zuiderpark rails against asylum seekers in a characteristic manner. "He's missing the point there," says the Eindhoven resident, a can of beer in his hand. 'This doesn't help me.'

The demonstration was an initiative of the radical farmers' organization Farmers Defense Force (FDF), with Samen voor Nederland, but it was not a farmers' protest: all groups that felt left out in the cold by the cabinet were called on to come to The Hague.

This was complied with. In the park in The Hague there is a colorful coalition of benefit parents, victims of Groningen gas extraction, social minimums, corona skeptics, nitrogen deniers and scattered farmers.

The symbol they share is the inverted flag, their shared goal of blocking the coalition's majority in the Senate. But that's where the unanimity ends. The grievances range from the European Union and NATO to alleged election fraud, and from the war in Ukraine - for and against - to the Environmental Act for spatial planning.

"For me it is not about a specific sector or specific themes," Forum for Democracy leader Thierry Baudet summarizes the meeting from the stage. "We're all targets!"

Baudet is also taking the opportunity to campaign for the Provincial Council elections on Wednesday. His party is the most visible: supporters hand out flyers and balloons, campaign posters hang on the lampposts towards the park.

The major absentee is BBB leader Caroline van der Plas, who dropped out due to threats. The SGP and JA21 are also absent, to the regret of Eindhoveen resident Mike, who wants to vote for 'an underdog' on Wednesday, but does not yet know which one.

Mike - also a volunteer firefighter and therefore reluctant to have his last name published in the newspaper - was never a voter until trouble came knocking at the door. His girlfriend, an employee in outpatient care, has been at home with long Covid complaints for a year.

"First people applauded her, and now she has to give up a third of her salary while the bills rise," he says, while his walking shoes bounce nervously up and down on the swampy lawn. 'There is no safety net.' They gave up the desire to have a second child. “Too expensive,” he explains calmly, almost resignedly.

The speakers on stage are anything but. A woman with an Ongehoord Nederland cap excitedly depicts the grandparents of public figures as NSB members. A little further on, two demonstrators are waving a prince's flag, an NSB symbol.

But the relentless stream of verbal frenzy on stage doesn't translate to the field. There, annoyed texts go hand in hand with an exuberant mood. Bring on the typhoid, we're fed up with it, this is done now!, the demonstrators happily sing along to the techno blaring from the speakers, mayo fries in hand.

Those present follow the instructions of the organization, which asked the demonstrators - their 'fighters' - to behave. Because 'the party cartel', the 'incumbent power', wants things to go wrong, is the reasoning, so that the media reports about it and deters voters. And so farmers park their tractors outside the city.

The shovel breaking through a police barrier shortly after the start turns out to be the only incident. Two officers are slightly injured when they arrest the reluctant driver. Just after four, a reggae singer closes the program. “Love and light!” he shouts, after an afternoon full of resentment. 'I am grateful!' The field is then largely empty.
First my girlfriend was applauded, and now she has to give up a third of her salary while the bills rise

View the original page: page 4, page 5

Graphic

 
One of the two permitted tractors.
Geert Wilders (PVV) passes the Forum bus.

Load Date: March 12, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")