Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The energetic citizen is exhausted
de Volkskrant
February 13, 2016 Saturday


Copyright 2016 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion and Debate; Page 17
Length: 954 words
Byline: MARTIN SOMMER
Body


Column - Clear view - Martin Sommer
The environmental law allows us to design the country ourselves - but not really.
Minister Melanie Schultz van Haegen (Infrastructure & Environment) is known to be a handy operator. While many VVD colleagues are hanging in the ropes, upset, she is somewhere laughing in a vest with her 130 sign. And if something doesn't work, then it doesn't work, right? For example, she recently dropped the plan to allow construction along the coastline. Protesting nature organizations had collected a hundred thousand signatures in no time. She doesn't beat dead horses and in Trouw she said that it is 'at the same time nice that people stand up for their coast like this'.

Was the coastal plan an incident? Connoisseurs saw it as a dress rehearsal for the environmental law. You don't know what that is, thanks to Schultz's clever operation, but the environmental law has been major, serious and almost unanimously adopted by the House of Representatives. The entire spatial planning, from national vision for the future to local zoning plan, will be included. The new law replaces 26 old laws and 4,700 articles of law. The Environmental Act is the spatial counterpart of the Participation Act and the WMO (informal care), with the same philosophy: from top to bottom. The commanding government is on its way out. Now it is the citizen's turn; in this case, to organize the country all by yourself.

All this is summarized under the heading 'simply better'. Last week, the Social and Cultural Planning Office published a booklet about this law, entitled Don't count outside the citizen! With exclamation mark. It has become a turn around ministerial ears. Simply better, yes. What is simple, the SCP wonders. Less complicated procedures, more room for initiative, and more confidence that things will go well. You could use the coastal story as proof that it works. The government gave the freedom to develop initiatives, the citizenry thought it was a bad idea - the party is cancelled, just as good friends.

The SCP sees something different. In practice, simply better means that the carpet is explained to builders, because the environmental law also includes the crisis and recovery law. This makes short work of sticky consultation procedures. The construction of wind farms is currently a source of contention for local residents. The SCP treats onshore wind as a case study, and points out that fewer rules sounds nice, but that rules are usually there for a reason and that there are also losers if they are abolished. In connection with wind farms, room for initiative mainly means room for perseverance from the government itself. One hundred and fifty councilors from eighty (wind turbine) municipalities wrote a letter to the Senate about this last week. The law has yet to be passed there. Don't fall for this, say the council members. Those who want to build are served, but where are the interests of the citizen?

So 'simply better'. Better - for whom? The idea of ​​the law is that it benefits everyone. That is the win-win situation that directors always dream of. Builders and citizens will figure it out together. Anyone who wants to build something must organize support for it themselves. This is where interests become entangled; the SCP speaks of butcher and own meat. The experience so far is not very encouraging. The Energy Agreement, which stipulates that approximately two thousand wind turbines should be added in the coming years, also states that wind turbine builders must arrange their own participation. In that context, their umbrella organization NWEA has developed a code of conduct for 'support and participation'. Last week, after I had written a critical piece about wind energy, the same NWEA sent this tweet to the world: 'Fortunately I didn't read @volkskrant this weekend: great to put so much acidic nonsense in one piece @martinsommer3'. I'm fine with it, but this is the club that is expected by law to love its opponents.

The government has been wanting to take a step back for years. First the market had to take over. That was not such a success. Now it's the citizen's turn. People speak of 'the energetic society'. The SCP is unrelenting. Does the citizen have the time and desire to be energetic? Last week the newspaper reported on two reports suggesting the opposite. Neighborhood care is not going well in the villages; In the families, the relationships are often not suitable for everyone to take on informal care for the father.

Due to the environmental law, once we have taken off father's support stockings, we will have to go to the community center to discuss the plans of the project developers. The energetic citizen is permanently exhausted. In practice, so-called participation professionals will be given every opportunity. They have the time and, above all, an agenda that does not necessarily have to be yours and mine.

Schultz's coastal plans are a nice illustration of the latter. The minister announced that some beach tents could be built and produced a card that showed in green how well nature is protected. The nature organizations did not ignore this. A coastal map was also placed on the Natuurmonumenten site, with red warning triangles from Sluis to Schiermonnikoog. Big alarm!

Below it was a leaflet. 'Windmills are not part of this campaign.' Natuurmonumenten wanted to prevent the citizenry from taking the wrong action. Not against beach bars but against windmills at sea. Participation is nice, but simply participating without guidance is not the intention. The environmental law will be presented in the Senate in mid-March. Senate, mind our cause!
Don't fall for it, say 150 councilors from eighty municipalities

View the original page: page 17

Graphic

 
The minister gets a pat on the back...
Photo ANP
The Coast by Melanie Schultz...
-
And that of Natuurmonumenten...
-
Martin Sommer is a political commentator for de Volkskrant.

Load Date: February 12, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")