Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Defense: more F-35s do not necessarily mean more nuisance at Leeuwarden Air Base
Friesch Dagblad
June 2, 2022 Thursday


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Noord All Rights Reserved


Length: 334 words
Byline: Ate Hoekstra
Highlight: Leeuwarden The Ministry of Defense wants to significantly expand its defense apparatus in the coming years. This does not necessarily have to lead to more crowds at and around the air base in Leeuwarden.
Body


It is possible that fewer flying hours will be made from Leeuwarden in a few years, expects Wilko ter Horst, spokesperson for Defense. More money also means that more can be practiced abroad, according to Ter Horst.
Defense wants to structurally increase the current budget by five billion euros per year. This money must, among other things, be used to increase the number of F-35s. Eighteen of the 46 ordered aircraft have currently been delivered, which will be expanded to 52. The fighter aircraft are stationed at the air bases in Leeuwarden and Volkel. There are many complaints in and around Leeuwarden about noise pollution from fighter jets.
It is still unknown where the new fighter aircraft will be stationed and where they will subsequently perform their training hours, but Defense writes in its note that it wants to expand cooperation with Germany, Norway, the United States and the United Kingdom, among others.
The Air Force also wants to double the number of MQ-9 Reaper drones, from four to eight. These drones are also stationed in Leeuwarden. It is still unknown whether more MQ-9s will come to Leeuwarden in the coming years. "The when and what is really still unclear," says Ter Horst
.
Permits
In order to be able to sail, fly, drive and shoot unhindered by nature and environmental regulations, the Defense Memorandum published on Wednesday suggests that the armed forces may need to be given an exceptional position in 'for example' the not yet introduced Environmental Act. This is because of its role in national security.
In the context of the Nature Conservation Act, the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality (LNV) issued a nature permit to Leeuwarden Air Base in January. The air base needs this permit to fly near Natura 2000 areas. Milieudefensie appealed against the license in February, because it was allegedly issued without Defense having provided all the necessary information to LNV.
Page 18
Link to PDF

Load Date: June 1, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")