Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The municipality of Amstelveen is taking the state to court
de Volkskrant
February 15, 2022 Tuesday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 8
Length: 1059 words
Byline: MARCEL VAN LIESHOUT
Highlight: One government taking the other before the Council of State: the municipality of Amstelveen and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management are today facing each other in the long-running dossier of housing construction under the flight paths of Schiphol.
Body


Housing shortage - Management conflict
The conflict between the two governments revolves around the question: can a municipality develop (temporary or otherwise) housing in an area that is subject to restrictions due to noise pollution from air traffic? Not only Amstelveen has this question; all neighboring municipalities of the national airport have been struggling with this for years.

"It seems as if we have become a plaything between ministries that send different signals," says Amstelveen councilor Floor Gordon (Spatial Planning, D66). The Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Affairs - responsible for housing - encourages housing projects, while Infrastructure and Water Management - responsible for aviation - is not cooperating, the municipality believes.
Necessary
Amstelveen worked for nine years on a new destination for the moribund Kronenburg office district, adjacent to the Uilenstede student campus where 3,400 students live. Agreement was reached with the market parties that own land and offices on the transformation of the area, where, among other things, 2,500 much-needed student homes are to be built. The municipality is happy, the province is happy, student housing provider Duwo is delighted, and even the owners of the vacant offices are satisfied. For the latter, it is not self-evident to participate in such a project, where the rent for half of the rooms is a maximum of 425 euros per month.

But it is all outside the scope of the Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate (ILT) of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. He believes that the zoning plan is in conflict with the so-called Schiphol Airport Layout Decree and wants the Council of State to annul the plan. It is not unique for the government and a municipality to face each other before the Council of State. For example, it happened to the former municipality of Onderbanken in a case about tree felling.

The stage of administrative arm-twisting has now been reached. Councilor Floor Gordon has no intention of bowing down. 'We really didn't just quickly put together a plan. Since 2018, municipalities have been given more room to weigh their own interests when building under the flight routes. We have of course also looked at the impact of air traffic on health and safety aspects.'

In addition to 2,500 student rooms, Amstelveen wants to build 1,580 so-called extended stay rooms in the Kronenburg area, where knowledge workers, expats and international students or teachers, among others, can live for up to six months. The area is close to the Zuidas and the Vrije Universiteit and there is a great need for this type of living space, the municipality reasons.

Councilor Gordon emphasizes that the zoning plan does not provide for 'regular housing', but for 'temporary housing' with all kinds of facilities. The construction will be 'sound adaptive', Gordon assures. 'On average, students will live there for approximately 2.5 years. In much better insulated homes than those a little further away in Uilenstede. 3,400 students live there, under the same flight path.'

In light of possible health damage due to noise pollution, Amstelveen has also involved the GGD in drawing up the zoning plan. Gordon: 'He supports us. Due to the relatively short time that the students live there and also in view of their age, it is unlikely that any permanent health damage will be suffered.'
Not happy
The Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate (ILT) makes no secret of the fact that it is 'not happy' that Amstelveen is seeking confrontation. The supervisory authority is still keeping secret exactly which grounds for appeal the ILT will submit to the Council of State. It has been established that the ILT considers the zoning plan to be contrary to the Schiphol Airport Layout Decree. Kronenburg falls in a so-called zone 4 area according to that decision. Within this, a maximum of 25 homes may be constructed per building plan.

A municipality may be able to build more, but only if there are 'special circumstances' and after submitting a declaration of no objection to the ILT. The latter did not happen, says the ILT. 'No one disputes that there is a housing shortage, but that is not a special circumstance.' The ILT says it is not blind to interests other than just those of aviation. Two months ago, Castricum did receive permission for the construction of 73 homes, while the offending noise zone also applies here.

The fact is that the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has designated Kronenburg as a 'key area' in the National Environmental Vision. That is a kind of predicate for areas where major social challenges need to be tackled more quickly. Amstelveen finds Kronenburg, right next to an existing student campus, a logical place to do something about the major shortage of student housing in the region.
Pious intentions
The fact that the pious intentions in The Hague memoranda can be at odds with the unruly practice has been shown more often in the Schiphol file. The government has planned a major housing construction task for the Schiphol region and at the same time, regulations are being drawn up that will at least make construction plans of the airport's neighboring municipalities even more difficult.

The North Holland deputy Jeroen Olthof (Livability, Aviation) already sounded the alarm at the same Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, which has now been tinkering with the new Environmental Act for years. Soon, all kinds of noise pollution will be added up to determine whether or not homes can be built somewhere. Olthof fears that almost the entire Schiphol region will soon be labeled as 'poor quality of life'. When asked, the province says it has still not heard anything from the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations about how justified those fears are.

Many municipal plans for the construction of tens of thousands of homes in the Schiphol region are worth little as long as restrictions are imposed due to air traffic. In this region, major social challenges (climate goals, improving the quality of life, tackling the housing shortage) always end up in the discussion about the benefits and burdens of air traffic. Councilor Gordon prefers to ignore this for the moment and points out the benefits of transforming Kronenburg: 'We should not think in terms of limitations, we should look for what we believe is possible.'

View the original page: page 8

Graphic

 
Councilor Floor Gordon (D66) in front of one of the vacant offices that she would like to transform into student housing.

Load Date: February 14, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")