Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=De Jonge wants to speed up the criticized law
NRC
January 28, 2022 Friday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 10
Length: 953 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
environmental code
Minister De Jonge wants to introduce the Environmental Act quickly. Those involved fear an IT drama, high costs and implementation problems.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Satisfaction among the top officials of the Ministry of the Interior: Hugo de Jonge, CDA Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning, declared himself fully in favor of the Environment Act within a week of taking office. This is potentially a stumbling block for De Jonge, but he still wants to see the law come into effect as soon as possible, this summer. No postponement after postponement, as was the case under his predecessor.
The Environmental Act, devised twelve years ago to simplify spatial planning, procedures and permit granting, is called the biggest change in the law since Thorbecke: fewer regulations, digital procedures and more opportunities for citizens and companies to arrange permits themselves. From new residential areas to large-scale repurposing of agricultural areas.
De Jonge made his intention clear during his introductory meeting at the ministry with the responsible top officials. Director General Erik Jan van Kempen was present. Just like project director Cathelijn Peters, responsible for introducing the law. Although it was a private and confidential meeting, his message was immediately leaked. Within the ministry, and outside it, also on the blog of ICT journalist Bas Linders. Gone were the doubts whether the massive opposition from local administrators, software suppliers and IT experts had destroyed all preparations.
Strategic importance to the leak
There was strategic importance to the leak. Next week, De Jonge will negotiate with the organizations of municipalities and provinces (VNG and IPO) about whether this law should be introduced as soon as July 1. Whether a new postponement or even cancellation should be decided. The fact that the new minister had spoken out unequivocally in favor of the law and the July deadline was an internal boost.
But it sparked surprise among critics of the law. There is great fear that this will herald the next IT drama, will cost millions more and will not function in practice. This was also the case with the reactions to internal communication about De Jonge's statements. Comparisons are made with the Benefits Affair. And with the Fyra drama or the difficult decentralization of Youth Care.
Thousands of legal articles and ministerial regulations have been combined in the new law. To make this possible, local rules and zoning plans must be linked to a gigantic national database, the so-called DSO.
And that's where things go wrong. Because the government works with various software suppliers, which means that ICT systems are insufficiently coordinated and difficult to access. The database that must support everything has become a fragmentary repository of information, as stated in consultation documents between municipalities and the ministry. Municipalities, provinces and water boards are struggling and are unable to access information during the ongoing trial period.
Simple permit applications went wrong during this test run; in Amsterdam it was impossible to arrange solar panels on monumental buildings. Municipalities can hardly communicate with each other. This also applies to communication with urban planning agencies.
Introduction of the law has already been postponed three times because the national database was not in order. But it must happen in July 2022, the previous minister Kajsa Ollongren wrote to the Senate at the end of 2021. She also wrote: "There are still many disruptions in the system and in the chain. There will still be a lot of work to be done to keep all processes surrounding licensing, supervision and enforcement properly organized and running."
Muddling through
The practice is more difficult. Spatial planning policy is at a standstill, urban planning consultants and software suppliers warn. Or, as spatial planning consultant Lieuwe Koopmans from Tercera, one of the most important software suppliers, describes it: "A six-month delay only leads to muddling through. Just introduce that law as of July 2022. Then the resulting chaos will be convincing enough."
There is also little trust elsewhere. Last year, almost half of the aldermen responsible for introducing the Environmental Act said in a survey by the trade magazine Domestic Governance that they wanted further postponement or to abandon it altogether. Reasons: fear of ICT dramas and major financial blunders. A third of the council members interviewed in December want nothing to do with the new law for the time being. They also want a postponement to prevent chaos.
Chairman Bahreddine Belhaj of the Dutch Association for Council Members: "No one believes that the government will get this national system in order in a timely manner. Municipalities also do not have the official capacity to deal with this new law. The civil servants involved are busy implementing the government's new housing plans."
Before the deadline, De Jonge still has to convince the Senate. This is awaiting an investigation by the ICT Assessment Office. This agency, the government's internal IT watchdog, previously gave negative advice twice about the national database in particular.
De Jonge's spokesperson remains mum about the start date, after the minister's initial optimism. First the administrative consultation, then "it must become more clear about the precise timetable".
The Environmental Act: a potential stumbling block for Minister De Jonge
Just implement that law. Then the resulting chaos will be convincing enough Lieuwe Koopmans consultant software supplier
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
The Environmental Act includes permits for new construction.
Photo ANP

Load Date: January 27, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")