Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Senate approves the introduction of the Environmental Act
NRC.NEXT
February 12, 2020 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 10
Length: 528 words
Byline: Rik Rutten

Jos Verlaan
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
           Legislation
From 2021, the new law must merge many laws and regulations. Citizens and municipalities have more say.
COMPLETE TEXT:
         Pretend that there is nothing new under the sun and hope that the storm will blow over. On Tuesday, the cabinet tried to defuse a new round of impending unrest in the Senate over the introduction of the Environmental Act. The preliminary score: that tactic is a success. Although Minister Stientje van Veldhoven (Interior, D66) had to acknowledge in the Senate that "unrest has arisen".
The Environmental Act, which has been discussed by the government and local authorities for ten years, must combine dozens of laws and hundreds of regulations. The law should simplify spatial planning policy and give citizens and municipalities more influence. The Rutte II cabinet has sometimes called the Environmental Act "the largest constitutional revision since 1848".
The reason for the unrest about the new law was the revelation in NRC on Monday that the Ministry of the Interior had blocked the publication of a critical inspection report. The subject of that report: problems that had arisen since the decentralization of spatial planning, resulting in danger to local residents, such as houses that were built too close to the storage of explosive materials - fireworks, ammunition.
Was this a harbinger of the problems that the Environmental Act could bring?
Van Veldhoven responded with two letters in two days in an attempt to dispel doubts among the senators. Message: the content of the reports was not new and not a cause for concern. The Senate, which was about to approve the Environmental Act on Tuesday, asked for - and was given - a few hours' extension to deliberate.
As it turned out during the vote on Tuesday evening, the coalition could still count on the support of PVV, Forum for Democracy and SGP, enough for a majority (53 of the senators in favor, 19 against). The PvdA voted divided, as did the SP, GroenLinks, Party for the Animals and the Otten factions.
Changing mood
Yet this day marked the changing mood in parliament regarding the Environmental Act. Only since the autumn has attention for the law been growing - as has the criticism. Suppliers and municipalities that have to work with new software doubt whether they are properly prepared in time and whether the law is enforceable. In an interview with NRC, the National Ombudsman warned of the risk that only a "participation elite" will be able to handle the complex rules and new responsibilities well. Those who cannot handle this, for example, those who cannot communicate digitally, are in danger of losing out. to mine.
The Environmental Act is not yet completely safe. The BIT, the critical watchdog for government ICT projects, must still rule on the feasibility of the law in April. And the cabinet will submit a final implementation decision (Royal Decree) to parliament this summer, as was promised during the debate. Only once this has been approved will its introduction in 2021 be inevitable.
Link to PDF

Load Date: February 11, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")