Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='EU too slow with climate measures'
NRC
March 12, 2024 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: SCIENCE; Page 16
Length: 769 words
Byline: Marcel aan de Brugh
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
climate
European Environment Agency warns that without action, the risks of climate change will quickly reach "critical levels".
COMPLETE TEXT:
European governments are responding far too slowly to the rapidly increasing risks of climate change. Without further action, some of those risks - including heat stress and declines in agricultural yields - could reach "critical levels" in the coming decades and "catastrophic levels" later this century. This is stated by the European Environment Agency in the first climate risk analysis for the EU. The report was published this Monday.
For each of five sectors (public health, food, infrastructure, ecosystems, and economy and finance), the agency examined 36 risks, including heat stress, floods, fire hazards for the population and nature, financial instability, decline in agricultural yields, decline in tourism , disruption of energy supplies and loss of biodiversity.
The agency emphasizes that climate change alone does not determine the severity of the risks. Climate change intertwines with other factors, such as social inequality, unsustainable agriculture, pollution and land use (for example, where construction takes place and where construction does not take place). That is why the European Environment Agency advocates a holistic, integrated approach involving many policy areas. "That requires a change in policy," says geographer Simona Pedde of Wageningen University & Research, who contributed to the report. "In the Netherlands, for example, the environmental law is an attempt to do this."
The analysis identifies three geographic areas most at risk. Firstly, Southern Europe, especially due to the growing impact of heat and drought on agriculture, outdoor work, summer tourism and fires. Secondly, low-lying coastal areas are vulnerable to flooding, erosion and salinization, partly due to accelerating sea level rise. And thirdly, the so-called outer areas of the EU, which are at risk because they are so remote, have weak infrastructure and often depend on only a few economic activities. These are (sub)tropical islands and coastal areas, such as the Azores, La Réunion and Sint Maarten.
Vulnerable, according to the agency, are also areas that depend on tourism, agriculture, fishing or forestry, including mountain areas such as the Alps and large parts of Northern Europe. The same applies to areas with high unemployment, poverty and emigration (especially Central-Eastern Europe) and densely populated areas.
There are additional risks for the 'public health' sector due to, among other things, worsening heat waves and fires. In the summer of 2022, an estimated 60,000 to 70,000 people will have died prematurely due to heat. According to the agency, policy should focus more on vulnerable groups, such as the elderly. For example, there should be more greenery in cities, for shade and cooling.
The 'economy and finance' sector is also at risk. European solidarity funds have already been oversubscribed due to costly events such as floods and wildfires.
Of the five sectors examined, ecosystems are most at risk. For example, maritime and coastal areas are already experiencing marine heat waves, acidification and the expansion of anoxic areas due to warming. But here too, it is not just climate change that determines the severity of the situation. The level of overfishing and pollution, for example, also has an influence.
The agency advises the EU and Member States to do more to protect nature. The just adopted European Nature and Recovery Act helps with this, but according to the agency, more is needed.
This also applies in a broader sense. Everything necessary is happening, but it is too little, too slow, according to the agency. For example, the European Commission adopted an 'adaptation strategy' at the beginning of 2021 - a strategy to adapt smarter, faster and more widely to climate change. But its goals are vague, and member states' efforts are often voluntary, the agency believes.
According to researcher Pedde, the most important thing that needs to happen is that society must anticipate extreme events more. Nowadays, responses are often only made after a serious fire or flood. "We must prepare ourselves better for what could happen, for unlikely events," says Pedde. "That requires a different mindset from policymakers and from society as a whole."
Europe is responding too slowly to climate change, research shows
European solidarity funds have already been oversubscribed
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
A large forest fire raged near the Greek city of Alexandroupolis last year. Southern Europe will be affected by fires more often due to climate change.
Photo EPA/DIMITRIS ALEXOUDIS

Load Date: March 11, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")