Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Experts place strict demands on Tata; Subsidies Professors critical
Leidsch Dagblad
February 29, 2024 Thursday
City


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 2
Length: 1047 words
Byline: Bart Vuijk
Body


Subsidies Professors critical
The billions in subsidies that Tata Steel is hoping for from the Dutch government must be used to make the factory cleaner. By keeping those subsidies like a fat sausage for the factory, the proven poorer health of local residents must be better protected.
IJmuiden
 Ten professors in various fields have provided their expertise for the first advice of the IJmond Health Expert Group, chaired by Professor Marcel Levi. The ideas were presented to State Secretary Vivianne Heijnen on Wednesday. She established this expert group for two years in October last year. More advice can be expected during that period, Levi makes it clear.
Health complaints
The expert group notes that little attention has been paid to the health of residents living near the heavily polluting steel manufacturer over the past fifty years. The factory was not concerned with this at all, nor was the government. When local residents started complaining about the factory's emissions and their health problems, they didn't know where to turn. Nobody listened. Not even after successive RIVM and GGD reports showed that lung cancer and asbestos cancer peaked enormously above the national average under the smoke of the factory.
In recent years, Tata has done a lot to reduce emissions, but that is still far from enough. There are no laws and regulations to crack down on the factory and, for example, to temporarily or permanently close a coking factory that is in violation. This has frustrated local residents.
According to the Expert Group, better health of those living near the factory must therefore become a strict condition for awarding these subsidies, which the factory wants to use to build new factories that produce green hydrogen.
The expert group advocates a 'health impact assessment', with strict health standards that the factory must adhere to. This must form part of the legally prescribed Environmental Impact Assessment that the factory has drawn up for its major new construction plans.
Stick
Such a health impact assessment has no legal basis. Won't it then be something like the Clean Air Agreement, which has also turned out to be a waste? Judges made short work of this: there was no enforcement. Levi: “No, this is not a Clean Air Agreement. A Health Impact Assessment indeed has no legal framework. We argue that it should be implemented anyway. The stick behind the door here are the subsidy agreements that the government makes with Tata Steel, the customized agreements. In return there is a large pot of money from the government. One condition could be that a health impact assessment is carried out, according to a number of very strict standards."
environmental code
Together with the new Environmental Act, which also provides new tools for enforcement based on the health of local residents, it should be sufficient to force Tata to produce cleanly, says Levi.
The Expert Group believes that Tata should not continue producing as it is now for another six years, because local residents would experience even more inconvenience than now. Cooking factory 2 must close much sooner. The professors argue that Tata should cut corners in the construction of the new factories by starting construction while the permit applications are still pending. Tata would be at risk with this, because if a factory is already there if the permit is not issued, the steel producer will have a problem. But according to the professors, that is negligible.
The professors think Tata Steel is not transparent enough. Neither from documents nor from conversations with the steel manufacturer itself have the ten professors been able to distill how many toxins actually enter the air and water. Although Tata reports that measures result in, for example, fifty percent fewer carcinogenic PAHs being emitted, there is no substantiation of that figure, as was recently established by the Advertising Code Committee following a complaint from Greenpeace.
Tata employees
Toxins that descend into the environment are one thing, but what about the health of Tata's own employees? To their surprise, the professors could not find any information about this. "We were only told that the people who have retired are doing well according to the pension fund. But how many people do not reach retirement age? That kind of data is lacking," says Levi. One of the recommendations of the Expert Group is that the manufacturer continues to closely monitor the health of its own employees and also ex-employees and makes this data available to supervisory authorities.
State Secretary Vivianne Heijnen says that the report contains a lot of information that she already knew. However, she does not follow the most concrete recommendation to close Kooksfabriek 2 more quickly. "I want to be able to weigh the option for earlier closure of this factory as part of the total package of environmental and sustainability measures. I want to be sure that the total package leads to a substantial improvement in health in the living environment. I want to complete this assessment as soon as possible, but will wait until then before drawing any firm conclusions."
Tata Steel is very cautiously announcing for the first time that the closure of the coking plant is open to discussion. "We recognize the concerns that exist in the area about our Cooking and Gas Factory 2. The initial findings of the expert group are a starting point for us to work together with governments, the IJmond Health Expert Group, RIVM, North Sea Canal Area Environmental Service, local residents and other stakeholders. to have a good discussion about the priorities."
Advice: close Kooksfabriek, that can suddenly be discussed with Tata
Recommendations
-
Making 2021 WHO Clean Air Guidelines leading
-
Systematically include health in considerations regarding licensing
-
Prepare health impact assessment
-
Accelerate green steel operation
-
Closing Kooksfabriek 2 earlier (than 2030).
-
Tata must be much more transparent about emissions
-
Employee health is also monitored after their departure
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 28, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")