Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Fund needed to retain construction workers'
Leidsch Dagblad
October 27, 2023 Friday
City


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BIBU; Page 15
Length: 379 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Body


Maarssen
A fund should be created to ensure that young people are retained in the construction sector for the next two years. Due to the decline in new construction, reorganizations cannot be ruled out.
FNV director Hans Crombeen said this on Thursday at a conference of the Economic Institute for Construction. It expects the number of building permits to drop by 25 percent this year. "The workload is expected to decline further, partly as a result of new regulations that will soon come into effect. We are not yet seeing any reorganizations among builders, but one concern is whether we can retain young people in the sector if this is the case due to the loss of work," says Crombeen.
The union already sees the storm brewing and warns of the consequences. "The expectation is that housing construction will recover from the slump in two years. Exactly the time it takes to train a professional. During reorganizations, the young people are the first to leave. With the help of a fund, contractors can be helped to retain the young people who we will need again in the sector."
Manpower
During the last major crisis in construction, about 15 years ago, 80,000 jobs disappeared in the sector. Some later returned as self-employed, but another part was lost to the sector, which needs all hands. "More houses are simply needed, so all manpower will soon be needed," says Crombeen.
The EIB has conducted a study into the current labor market. 50,000 extra pairs of 'hands' are needed, while a wave of retirements is also imminent. WoningbouwersNL, the trade club for builders of private homes, sees the new Environmental Act as a hurdle for housing construction in the next few years. For example, noise standards will play a major role in this, but in this area too the wheel still has to be reinvented in practice.
Permits
“All zoning plans will be canceled, resulting in an enormous administrative operation for the municipalities. We are currently no longer able to contact an official when we want to apply for a permit, while municipalities are also not obliged to participate in a project."
Trade union FNV wants to stop layoffs during the construction slump
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 26, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")