Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dear editors
de Volkskrant
April 26, 2024 Friday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Saturday; Page 22, 23
Length: 1337 words
Body


Children
Children at concerts (V, 24/4), well. I regularly attend concerts and I also noticed that it is now very common for children under the age of 10 to be present, usually brought along by their parents. You then wonder: what is this? Children bundled up with headphones to protect them from the loud noise. Children who very often barely know where they are. Parents who don't have a babysitter?

The crazy thing is that these are also concerts that are often sold out and expensive, with queues for tickets.

And they don't just appear at Meau or Flemming. You also see them appear at Hang Youth and Froukje. Or with Ploegendienst, not exactly a child-friendly act. Noel Gallagher had a conversation in the Afas Live with a girl in the front, who was barely above the crowd barriers. It was also very strange, for example, to hear little girls on the stairs in Paradiso singing along during Merol's concert with her song May I eat you?

No, just leave children under 10 at home.

Henny Goedemans, Amsterdam
Dirty games
Time and again I read with some indignation and disbelief about the ways in which Russia tries to influence, spy on and sabotage the Western world in order to destabilize and weaken the democracies. But I also notice that I have come to take this almost for granted, that it is normal that these kinds of practices have become part of the dealings of the great powers.

But, belonging to the bloc of the West myself, I am not sure whether we really have the right to speak, to be genuinely indignant and to say that we do not also play these dirty games. Can I say: we don't do something like that?

Marcel Gerritsen, Amsterdam
Citizen participation
What is the reason that citizen participation in municipalities is so often vapid and sometimes has manipulative tendencies? The article about the Environmental Act in Groningen (First, 23/4) describes the same experiences that we in Utrecht Overvecht have had for over a year with the environmental vision: raising wrong expectations, omitting preconditions, concealing language, unclear information, results of ignoring surveys and not answering questions and complaints, to name a few. In addition, the municipality of Utrecht is trying to conceal the fact that demolition must take place.

In their book Citizen Participation in Public Administration, Rob van Engelenburg and Peter van Hoesel mention that no quality requirements are set for policy development in municipalities as a likely cause of the lack of citizen participation. Freedom, happiness, and maximum scope for administrators to determine the desired outcome, the authors conclude. Then the hurdles of participation and input from residents still have to be overcome. Because no quality requirements are set, this does not pose any insurmountable obstacles.

Isn't it time, for example, that assessment committees were set up to test and improve the quality of policy development and citizen participation in municipalities? Following the example of quality assurance in higher education.

Fred Verbeek, Utrecht
Full
Geert Wilders has been saying it for years: the Netherlands is (too) full. And so it must be less, less, less. I just couldn't get used to that idea. But let's be honest: he has a point. The Netherlands is indeed too full and it needs to be less.

What do we have too much of? I checked the statistics and we indeed have too many cars, fat bikes, pigs, chickens, cows, manure (from pigs, chickens and cows), pesticides, CO2 emissions, particulate matter, plastic, exemptions for farmers, subsidies for farmers ( 60 percent of the EU money goes to these heroes), rules down to the bone, councilors Hekking (as in Amsterdam, but not only there), decentralization (which only leads to legal inequality), policy officials, flight movements without economic added value, aggression , crazy influencers, fake news - and I could go on and on.

Do we also have too few things? I think so: a little trust in scientists and investigative journalists. Or more generally: culture, nature, humor, ability to put things into perspective and above all: space. Space in the literal sense of the word: to live, live and enjoy. And who has that space now? There they are again: the farmers. They own approximately 60 percent of the surface of the Netherlands. Shouldn't Geert Wilders talk about that with his loyal fan Caroline?

Bert Burger, Oegstgeest
Rationing
We must thoroughly change our lifestyle to achieve the climate goals, says the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency. In other words: to keep our heads above water, we have to significantly reduce production and consumption. But we don't do that, the PBL sees. No, we don't.

What now? Will we let the contraction happen 'on its own', just as there is already a shortage of coffee, cocoa and bananas? All other shortages will soon follow as agricultural land becomes scarce. Nothing happens 'automatically': then it is the aggressive grabbers who make off with it, at the expense of others.

Let's prevent that for heaven's sake. Please let us organize the shrinkage. This can be done by starting rationing now: the same for everyone. Rationing will happen anyway. The sooner the better.

Helen Gerretsen, Amsterdam
Folk cuisine
Because I am just a simple home cook, the recipes from the Volkskeuken section are too complex for me. I do like to read the ingredients list. How many combinations are possible, I reflect with admiration. Folk chef Onno Kleyn combines a lot with sugar: cauliflower with half a teaspoon of sugar or winter carrot with a teaspoon of sugar.

On Tuesday, the pot of 'Thai twist' (asparagus with tom kha sauce) was abolished. I was curious how much sugar is included and looked at the ingredients list. Not a grain of sugar in sight. Then quickly go to the recipe and luckily, there it is: 'A pinch of sugar per liter of water.' Cook and enjoy your meal.

Theun Smits, Amsterdam
Nuns
In the article about nuns playing football in Italy, the editors provide justification for the use of the word 'nun' (First, 4/23). It says that some Catholics find the word "condescending." However, it is the other way around.

The concept has been made condescending by non-believers and fringe church members and has been given emotional values ​​such as strict, unmerciful, unloving, old, sour, angry. Sometimes it is inspired by personal experiences, usually by parroting. We too easily forget that in Dutch history, especially in the south of the country, these women have been at the basis of education, health care, nursing homes, help for the poor and orphans, and many other social institutions.

The article in the newspaper helps to soften the negative connotation of the word 'non'. But until we have achieved that, I still advocate the use of 'sister', 'religious' or 'religious sister'. The word 'sister' then stands in relation to sister, as brother stands in relation to brother. The context should avoid confusion with the meaning of 'sister' and 'female nurse'. After all, the French soeur has no problem with that either.

Henk Cruts, Vlijmen
Family messages
I am regularly amazed by the combination of articles and advertisements in the Volkskrant, such as recently an article about (un)healthy food and an advertisement for fast food. But what really irritates me is the layout of the page with family messages in the newspaper.

The smallest family message costs 599 euros and for a slightly larger message you can easily pay more than 1,000 euros. To this end, you can expect that the message will be posted in a respectful manner. And not next to a dominant, immediately eye-catching advertisement from DPG in which they advertise the sale of family messages.

Gerda Pauwelussen, Castricum

View the original page: page 22, page 23

Graphic

 
Young audience at Goldband's performance in June 2022, during the 40th edition of Parkpop on the Malieveld in The Hague.

Load Date: April 25, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")