Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='No more slack'; background Why the construction of Valkenhorst is now a race against time after years of discussion
Leidsch Dagblad
December 11, 2021 Saturday
City


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 3
Length: 727 words
Body


background Why the construction of Valkenhorst is now a race against time after years of discussion
With a tired look, construction councilor Gerard Mostert sketches a picture of 'a madhouse' behind the scenes late on Thursday evening in the Katwijk town hall. “Long days, busy every evening, little sleep. But it's for a good cause. Hopefully it will eventually lead to a result.”
Katwijk
After fifteen years of endless discussions about the development of the former Valkenburg air base, the planning for the new village of Valkenhorst has suddenly become an exhausting race against time. How is that possible?
First of all, this has everything to do with the municipal elections in March. The alderman wants to have the zoning plan for all 5,600 homes determined by the municipal council before then, whatever the costs.
"The current council members have a lot of knowledge and experience, because I have constantly updated them on developments in recent years," Mostert explains. "A new municipal council needs months after the elections to familiarize itself with the matter."
Implications
That time is not there, says the alderman. Not only because Katwijk and the entire region are in dire need of this mega construction project, but also because the new Environmental Act will be introduced on July 1, 2022. Although this is intended to merge and simplify the rules for spatial planning, this could have extremely complicated consequences for Valkenhorst.
There is a chance that the just completed zoning plan for Valkenhorst, on which a team of civil servants has worked feverishly over the past year ('A feat'), will no longer be sufficient. Mostert: "We don't want to end up in a discussion about that."
So he has no more time to lose. The city council plans to send the zoning plan to councilors on December 24 so they can start going through the huge tome during the holidays. They will have three weeks to do this: the series of meetings that will lead to its adoption in February will start on January 20.
The only problem is that Mostert is currently missing crucial 'preconditions' to close the zoning plan in the area of ​​nitrogen. To this end, he is awaiting contracts that the Central Government Real Estate Agency, as land owner at the old air base, concludes with project developer BPD, regarding the sale of emission allowances.
Under great pressure, this seems to have been resolved at the very last moment: the negotiating parties informed the councilor with a 'note' this week that they had reached an agreement. "They have promised to deliver the contracts before Christmas," says Mostert. "But that's not on time. We need them before December 21 to stay on schedule.”
Liquid
Although strict deadlines have continuously proven to be fluid during the creation of Valkenhorst, according to the councilor, there is now really no wiggle room anymore. If there is another hitch, he will be forced to cut the zoning plan for the entire village into pieces.
"Then we will at least have sufficient nitrogen compensation for the first part, and in the meantime we can work on a solution for the other parts. But then you know for sure that there will be no homes for the time being. This adjustment of plans will cause a delay of at least one year. That takes far too long: we really need those houses.”
That is why the lights in his office are on until the late hours these days. "We are very close," says the senior official supporting Mostert encouragingly. “We have never been closer.”
Meanwhile, court rulings elsewhere in the country are fueling fears that the first pile is still a long way off. No one dares to claim with certainty anymore that Katwijk's nitrogen solution - to largely compensate the emissions of the new residents with rights for cows that are no longer present - will prove to be legally tenable.
"You can tell from the colleagues who work on it behind the scenes every day: it is very exciting," Mostert said late on Thursday evening in the town hall. ,,It's very exciting. I stay positive every day. It will work, I am convinced of that. It just has to work. We can't explain it if it doesn't work out."
Hielke Biemond
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 10, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")