Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Noordwijkerhout and Noordwijk's flirtation becomes increasingly intimate
Leidsch Dagblad
January 6, 2016 Wednesday


Copyright 2016 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION
Length: 409 words
Body


 Noordwijkerhout/Noordwijk The relationship between the municipalities of Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout is becoming increasingly close. “We do not hesitate to turn to Noordwijk to join forces where necessary and beneficial,” said Noordwijkerhout mayor Gerrit Goedhart during his New Year's speech.
It was already clear that the official merger between Teylingen, Lisse and Hillegom, with effect from 1 January 2017, will drive Noordwijk and Noordwijkerhout into each other's arms. The two Bollenstreek municipalities - who kindly thanked them for the honor when they were asked to participate by the three merger partners - already agreed last autumn to work closely together in a number of areas. For example, the two municipalities are joining forces in the field of automation, the social domain (youth care, social support, sheltered employment), enforcement & supervision and the new Environmental Act to be introduced in 2018, which bundles existing laws in the areas of construction, environment, water, spatial planning and nature. “We are very satisfied with how things are going now,” said Goedhart, who also knew Noordwijk mayor Jan Rijpstra and deputy mayor Gerben van Duin among the reception attendees. “As far as we are concerned, being together as single people offers prospects for the future.” But Goedhart did not speculate about more than just working together, i.e. a merger. On the contrary. “We agree in the fact that we belong neither to Katwijk nor to Hillegom-Lisse-Teylingen. Without making any connections and without having to violate our fear of commitment, we are increasingly working together because we are in the same position,” he explained.
Duinpolderweg
In his speech, Goedhart looked further ahead to this year, when, according to him, housing construction at the salt storage facility in De Zilk and on the Bavo site will 'come further into focus'. In terms of infrastructure, Noordwijkerhout will continue with the new road along De Boekhorst sports park and with the Duinpolderweg. Regarding the latter, the mayor had a sneer in store for the municipality of Hillegom. "I regret that the coalition parties unceremoniously dismissed their traffic councilor (Ivo ten Hagen, ed.), also the traffic portfolio holder of Holland Rijnland, on that file. They should have had some discussion about that. It does not strengthen our position in the negotiations with the two provinces that cross the Duinpolderweg," said Goedhart.

Load Date: January 5, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")