Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The municipality of Lisse is working on an environmental vision
Leidsch Dagblad
January 23, 2020 Thursday
Dune and Bulbs


Copyright 2020 HDC Media B.V. / Leidsch Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 007
Length: 322 words
Byline: Ed Olivier
Body


  Lisse Residents of Lisse can discuss the environmental vision: a blueprint for the next 50 years of living, working and recreation in the village. Under the motto 'Zoom in on Lisse', councilor Jolanda Langeveld goes into the neighborhood to hear what residents think about their living environment. The first meeting will be on Thursday afternoon, January 30, in the Poelmarkt shopping center.
This will be followed by consultation mornings and afternoons at the Ter Specke sports park and in the Blokhuis shopping center. Lissen residents can also participate in the discussion by becoming a member of the municipality's digital panel. Dutch municipalities are obliged to draw up an environmental vision in the context of the Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2021. Together with so-called environmental plans, the Environmental Act replaces 26 laws and counters. The intention is that residents can handle everything at the municipality at one counter and that they do not have to wait 26 weeks, but a maximum of 8 weeks for a permit. Anyone who wants to build a shed, cut down a tree or organize a neighborhood party can soon go to the environmental counter. The intention is also to give residents more control over their environment. 'What do your neighbors think?' is a question that applicants will soon be asked if they want an environmental permit. Because why wouldn't you discuss your construction plans with your neighbors? Better this way than ending up in objection procedures via the application. The municipality already drew up a Future Vision in 2017. Councilor Langeveld wants to further develop the ideas contained here together with residents and entrepreneurs. Lisse has the ambition to become the greenest municipality in the Bollenstreek, with high-quality facilities in the areas of healthcare, sports, education and culture. The neighborhood meetings conclude with a closing evening in 't Poelhuys on February 6. Times and locations: www.lisse.nl/Omgevingsvisie

Load Date: January 22, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")