Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipalities want to be able to ban unhealthy fast food with new rules
NRC.NEXT
January 27, 2021 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 2
Length: 283 words
Byline: Martine Kamsma
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
Tackling obesity
Municipalities can ban retailers if there is odor or noise pollution, but not if they sell unhealthy food. This must change, according to the four largest municipalities, plus Ede.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The four largest municipalities plus Ede want laws and regulations to be amended to limit the supply of unhealthy food and tackle obesity. They say that municipalities are already doing everything they can do to combat obesity.
In a letter to outgoing State Secretary Paul Blokhuis (Public Health, Christian Union), they therefore request an amendment to the Environment Act and the Commodities Act. Now providers cannot be banned just because they sell unhealthy food. This is only possible if, for example, there is noise or odor nuisance. With an amendment to the law, municipalities could more easily ban fast food branches.
Intervention is necessary, say the municipalities, because half of the Dutch population is overweight. "An unhealthy food environment also contributes to inequality of opportunity," write the Public Health aldermen of Amsterdam (D66), The Hague (VVD), Rotterdam (CDA), Utrecht (D66) and Ede (CU), a smaller municipality that was the first to alderman had 'food'.
People with a low socio-economic status live on average six years shorter and are healthy for fifteen years shorter. "We cannot accept that." Municipalities have a duty to protect the health of citizens, they say, referring to a number of treaties.
Existing fast food restaurants will not be closed with any new regulations. At the end of 2019, Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Utrecht already advocated a sugar tax. There was no parliamentary majority for this.
Link to PDF

Load Date: January 28, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")