Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='If politics leaves standards open, the judge sets them'
NRC Handelsblad
May 8, 2020 Friday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 14
Length: 1015 words
Byline: Folkert Jensma

Mark Lievisse Adriaanse
Body


ABSTRACT
Interview Thom de Graaf Vice President of the Council of State
If politicians make better laws, they do not have to fear that judges will sit in their 'seat', says Vice President of the Council of State Thom de Graaf at the publication of the annual report.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The Council of State had already written its annual report, the symposium around the presentation had been organized - and then the corona crisis brought the country to a standstill. Also the Council of State. "But if that crisis had broken out three months earlier, we would have written the same annual report," says Thom de Graaf, vice president of the Council.
"The essence, namely a good understanding of each other's role in the rule of law, is necessary in all cases. But it is even more urgent in times of emergency for citizens and government," he says, wearing a suit and tie, from behind the webcam in his office. The annual interview surrounding the presentation of the much-read reflection on the state of the rule of law in The Hague will take place this year place digitally.
The rule of law may now require the reflections and advice of the most important legal advisor to the government and parliament. The House of Representatives has barely met for two months, thousands of lawsuits have been suspended and the measures to slow down the coronavirus are, according to lawyers, "unconstitutional, undemocratic and untenable". With an emergency law, the cabinet wants to better legally record these measures.
The debate does not focus enough on civil liberties, says De Graaf. "It's mainly about economics versus health. But the support required to possibly limit citizens' freedoms in a higher interest must be an independent decision. The answer does not have to be: end the measures. But it must be taken into account: how far can you go? What is proportional? Not enough has been said about that.”
There are now emergency laws that will legally establish measures regarding the coronavirus in a short time. Is democracy in danger now that we are governed by emergency regulations and emergency laws?
De Graaf: “No, I don't think so. The government has not been given authority to do what it wants, judicial review of the rules is possible. It is another question whether after a number of weeks you will still be able to make do with the current instruments, the emergency ordinance. It is now known that the government is working on a law that will better establish the limitation of fundamental rights. That's sensible."
On average, the Council takes 41 days to provide advice on a bill. Can such an emergency law receive the legal analysis it needs?
“We are certainly not rushing through it. If necessary, we work day and night and on weekends. This has also been done with the other emergency laws, for example those that make digital meetings of municipal councils possible. We realize that we cannot take weeks of time when the need arises. But advice will only be issued if we think it is sound and safe. Better no law than a bad law.”
The latter often goes wrong. After emphasizing the 'value of the law' last year, De Graaf's introductory discussion focuses this year on the consequences of careless legislation. Social unrest arises when citizens get lost in a web of legal complexity and get the feeling that the government is opposing them. And political dissatisfaction arises if, in the case of vague legislation, it is up to the judge to determine what the limits of the law are. The judge will sit in our chair, politicians say.
This happened last year, for example, when the Council of State declared the Nitrogen Approach Program (PAS) illegal, resulting in angry farmers and conflicts in the coalition. The entire nitrogen policy had to be overhauled.
Has the Netherlands become a 'dicastocracy', a country in which judges have the power? De Graaf laughs. “The House of Representatives has started a working group to investigate this. That is her full right, but I was surprised. I would be the same if the Council for the Judiciary were to set up a parliamentarism working group." The state powers could therefore have a little more "respect" for each other, says De Graaf. "My comments are not anti-social, but it is good for the legislator to look at themselves."
Why?
"Many laws are made in which the standards are open or vague. Consider the Environmental Act: in it the legislator actually moves the setting of standards to the implementation. Many laws shift power to the board: they are allowed to draw up the norms and rules. But if they are vague or remain open, it ultimately falls to the judge to interpret or even set the standards. If politicians standardize better, this will happen less."
How do you explain the lack of standards by the legislator?
“It partly has to do with speed. They are close to the skin of a social problem and want to find a solution quickly. Then it is easier to leave the standardization to the board. The House of Representatives does less at all with its normative, legislative task. It has mainly become about controlling the government, instead of making the rules themselves. Complexity also plays an important role. Society is much more complicated than fifty years ago. The legislature is trying to keep up. Laws then often become instrumental law, which enable the administration to keep up."
The Council of State advises on legislation. Have you not noticed enough the lack of standardization in laws? Or is the advice not being listened to?
“Our advice certainly has value in the political debate. From my time as a senator [2011-2018], I remember that a minister was often asked why an advice from the Council was not followed. Our advice improves the quality of rules. But sometimes political considerations play a greater role and our advice is not followed, recently for example with the abolition of the arithmetic test and the transformation of ProRail."
Better no law than a bad law
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Thom de Graaf: "The debate is not about civil liberties enough."
Photo Guus Schoonewille

Load Date: May 8, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")