Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='A greener neighborhood is also a nicer neighborhood'; This is how we want to live; Smaller, greener and in a house that we design ourselves
NRC Handelsblad
February 6, 2021 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: LIFE; Page 1
Length: 1886 words
Byline: Wouter van Noort

Van Santen & Bolleurs
Body


ABSTRACT
Green living Neighborhoods that are nicer for people and for hedgehogs and bees - 'nature-inclusive neighborhoods' and 'green metropolises' are on the rise. But it also turns out to be hard work.
COMPLETE TEXT:
"It is actually forbidden, but in the summer people sometimes secretly enjoy swimming here," says resident Hilde Buis as she looks out over the lake on the edge of her new housing estate: Vogelenzang in Rhenen. Her two children aged two and four play on a green field near a swing.
You understand that urge to swim. The lake seems more likely to come from a Scandinavian postcard than to match the actual location: right along a provincial road on the border between Gelderland and Utrecht.
Vogelenzang is one of the first 'nature-inclusive' neighborhoods in the Netherlands - a neighborhood in which greenery is a central part of the design. It is surrounded by a protected hilly forest area. The water is now a bit sparse and cold, but it is the middle of winter.
"The district was designed with the red deer from the surrounding forest in mind," says architect Björn Bleumink of architectural firm BDP, which is designing more of these types of districts, including in Zeist and Putten. And a small park in the heart of the district is working. as a "sponge" for excess rainwater, making it function as a "green water storage" where wild flowers, herbs and grasses can grow.
Specific plant species have been planted around the lake that can withstand fluctuations in the water level. "It is okay if the bank dries up, but also if the plants become submerged," says Bleumink. Biodiversity and climate resilience are important, swimming is prohibited to protect the animals and plants in the lake.
Vogelenzang is one of the few projects that has already been completed, but in recent months there has been a boom in green urban development plans in which nature and biodiversity are an important part of the design. For example, over the next ten years, the municipality of Arnhem will remove kilometers of asphalt and build parks, trees and neighborhood vegetable gardens to absorb the water from more extreme rain showers and to make the city cooler in the summer. And in Leiden and Oldenzaal, the scattered pieces of greenery around the canals are connected into elongated and continuous canal parks.
Rotterdam announced at the end of January that it will invest 233 million euros in 'greening' the city. The central Coolsingel and the Hofplein will partly become park-like promenades, and a large park will be constructed along the banks of the Maas, "where new recreational and ecological possibilities will arise". From Almere to Amsterdam and Utrecht, ambitious (and expensive) projects have been carried out in recent months. ) announced plans for greening and adaptation to the changing climate.
The Green Metropolis
For the time being, the large Dutch cities are mainly made of stone, concrete and asphalt, but things are definitely changing, notes Harry Boeschoten of Staatsbosbeheer. There he developed the 'The Green Metropool' project six years ago, with the aim of connecting nature reserves in the Netherlands to greenery in the cities. A continuous network of green areas that is pleasant for people and nature - that was quite a challenge for years. "But you have clearly noticed more receptiveness to those ideas in the past year," says Boeschoten. The pandemic also has something to do with this, he thinks. "We work from home more often, so we are in the neighborhood more often, and a greener neighborhood is also just a nicer neighborhood."
Green networks
And yet there is something wrong: not everyone can live on the edge of a green and picturesque lake. Firstly, there are too few picturesque lakes, and secondly, too few rich people. There are an above-average number of Teslas in Vogelenzang. It is a beautiful neighborhood, but the house prices are also there. A house overlooking the lake is now for sale on Funda, 202 square meters for 875,000 euros. These are city amounts.
Harry Boeschoten thinks that his plan to connect and expand the existing green areas in the Netherlands can contribute to making green living more accessible to many more people. "We often tend to think in terms of green places, and not in green networks," he says. "While connecting green places is crucial for both people and nature. You could see the be able to step into nature, and walk via arteries from parks and greenery to the nature reserves outside the city. In addition, the construction of new forests naturally fits in beautifully with the development of that green network."
According to various studies, connecting greenery would not only improve the quality of life, but it can also make the city cooler on hot days and provide some relief for declining biodiversity. "If you think from the hedgehog perspective, instead of just from the human perspective, connecting green areas is also a good idea," says Boeschoten.
According to him, we now often regard nature reserves as a destination area - you go there specifically to walk. During corona times you notice that it becomes overcrowded. First everyone in the car, then en masse in the parking lot in front of the entrance to the forest. While: if you were to connect the green areas, the need for greenery would spread out more over space and time, and you would no longer necessarily have to get in the car for it.
Staatsbosbeheer is in discussions with several major cities to implement the ideas of its green metropolis. Boeschoten is also working with a project developer in Krommenie, North Holland, to build a nature-inclusive neighborhood there that is directly connected to the adjacent nature reserve.
Oak processionary caterpillar
Greener living sounds like a no-brainer at first glance. From cradle to grave, more nature in the immediate area is healthy: it provides more outdoor play opportunities for children and it provides more motivation to walk for the elderly. And more greenery can also be much more sustainable, climate-proof and biodiversity-friendly.
But of course there are still many serious problems to be solved before the whole of the Netherlands turns into a blooming green park. In recent decades, there has been considerably less greenery in the cities, so a lot of nature must first be created to realize such green ambitions. Although there are large amounts of government subsidies for sustainability from the various European and national corona recovery funds, it is not yet clear what they will be spent on.
You cannot yet live in an artist's impression of a beautiful green neighborhood, and it often happens during the construction process that cuts are made to the green ambitions - because they are often considered less essential than the bricks. Then, upon completion, projects appear to have become somewhat grayer than initially depicted.
Greenery also needs more water - including groundwater - and there is already a shortage of this in parts of the country during the increasingly drier summers. And, not pleasant for everyone: what is nice for a hedgehog is also nice for an oak processionary caterpillar. Radically greening neighborhoods means hard work, a lot of maintenance, adjusting the behavior of residents and getting used to nature again.
This requires new ways of collaboration between residents, municipalities, provinces, Staatsbosbeheer and project developers, says Boeschoten. "There is still too often talk of the 'topographic disease': the tendency not to think beyond the municipal boundary, the boundary of a nature reserve or the project boundary of the project developer. If we continue to think like this, you will never achieve green networks."
So combine all these recent ambitious plans from the municipalities with residents' initiatives, he says. Actively involve them, just like local companies. Why couldn't garden centers label their plants more clearly, so that it is easier for residents to choose plants that really contribute to biodiversity or the bee population?
NK Tegelwippen
Architect Björn Bleumink also sees much room for better involving residents in maintaining greener neighborhoods in the long term. "Although you do see hopeful developments such as owner associations that jointly manage the greenery."
'Bottom-up' and 'cooperative' are the key words for just about anyone working on this subject. The green project plans, brochures and policy documents are full of it. In that respect, a lot is also expected from the new Environmental Act that came into effect this year. This should make it easier for residents to come up with initiatives for creating neighborhood parks and managing new green areas. There are more and more subsidy schemes that provide for this, and rules for creating community gardens are slowly but surely being relaxed.
Remarkably, many of these initiatives gained momentum during the past corona year. For example, residents of Amsterdam and Rotterdam organized a competition between the two cities on their own initiative: which city could create the most facade gardens. During the 'NK Tile Wippen' event, it was kept track of how many paving stones residents had removed to create a garden. The standings after one year: '010' beats '020' with 47,942 against 46,484. Not that this immediately creates a continuous green vein through the city, but many streets immediately look nicer and according to the initiators, such a garden is an important first step in involving citizens in greening cities.
'Great garden'
In short, there is something in the air about greener and more nature-friendly living. Various party programs for the upcoming House of Representatives elections contain major ambitions for green new construction, with the green Vogelenzang perhaps serving as an example.
And a lot is happening outside the Netherlands too. The Paris Champs-Élysées will be transformed into "a great garden" by 2024 with many more trees and plants, more space for pedestrians and much less for cars and flashy shops. And Barcelona announced in January this year a radical plan to ten years to replace a third of the roads in residential neighborhoods with "green zones" with trees and plants.
It seems that the post-pandemic city will be a lot greener than it is now.
Walk straight out of your front door, through greenery and parks, into a nature reserve
Greenery can also make the city cooler on hot days
Five major green projects
In Rotterdam, a completely new ecological city park is being constructed on the Nieuwe Maas: Park Maashaven.
In Leiden, the scattered greenery on the canals is connected into one large canal park.
Amsterdam is investing 26.5 million euros in 'radical greening' by, among other things, renovating parks.
Almere Haven should have several large green meeting places added by 2040.
In Arnhem, at least 10 percent of the asphalt must be replaced by grass and trees by 2030.
Link to PDF
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
The Vogelenzang district near Rhenen is one of the first 'nature-inclusive' districts in the Netherlands - a district in which greenery forms a central part of the design.
Photos and plan map Vogelenzang BDP
Photo Van Santen & Bolleurs

Load Date: February 8, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")