Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Noise rule is disastrous'; Municipalities and builders fear that the new calculation method will paralyze house construction
The Telegraph
August 1, 2020 Saturday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 2
Length: 1365 words
Body


Municipalities and builders fear that the new calculation method will paralyze house construction
To build! To build! To build! The credo of the Rutte III cabinet in the fight against a dire housing shortage. But due to legal nitrogen problems and the PFAS malaise, The Hague seems to be achieving the opposite. The end is not yet in sight: a new way of calculating noise threatens to paralyze housing construction.
The decision of D66 State Secretary Stientje van Veldhoven (Infrastructure), responsible for environmental policy, to calculate noise in a different way is reminiscent of her PFAS approach. It is correct on paper, but little attention is paid to the consequences in practice.
"The consequences for us are disastrous and unacceptable. According to the new calculation method, 75 percent of the municipality of Haarlemmermeer (where Schiphol is located, ed.) has a poor or very poor acoustic living environment. This means that we can no longer build homes in 75 percent of our municipality," Mayor Marianne Schuurmans-Wijdeven warns in a letter to the cabinet. "The construction of roads and activities is also becoming much more difficult."
Housing market professor Peter Boelhouwer from TU Delft fears a paper reality in The Hague. “Van Veldhoven has blundered with PFAS. This caused construction to come to a standstill and that was unprecedented stupidity," says the professor. "Now the same thing threatens to happen, because the consequences are not being fully considered."
Living environment
The new calculation rules are part of the Environmental Act. From 2022, this law will replace hundreds of rules and laws in the field of the living environment. Everything must become simpler and more balanced. At least that is what D66 Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs) intends. But that is precisely where the problem lies with the new calculation rules.
State Secretary Stientje van Veldhoven has decided to adjust the rules for calculating noise in an addition to the law. The precise details of the new calculation do not need to be approved by parliament.
What will change? There are currently separate calculation rules for wind turbines, industry, railways, highways and aviation. These noisemakers will soon be added together in one new sum. Noise from aircraft is more annoying and therefore counts more than noise from a highway.
That doesn't seem so strange: after all, a resident doesn't just hear either the road or an airplane. It is a sum of sound. "The data on aviation noise was outdated and gave an underestimate of the nuisance," a spokeswoman for Van Veldhoven explains.
The intentions are good. But the new calculation has a completely different outcome in parts of the Netherlands compared to now. While the noise factor is currently still 'reasonable', the same area may soon be labeled 'very poor'. A disaster for municipalities that have plans for housing in those areas and annoying for people who want to sell their house there.
The Schiphol region in particular - where there is a great need for more housing - is in danger of being hit hard. But not only there: the immediate vicinity of airports in Groningen, Maastricht, Rotterdam, Eindhoven and around military airfields is in danger of being compromised. Ports, industrial complexes and public transport companies also fear the consequences for the housing market.
"We want to build 1 million new homes by 2040, including in centers where there is air traffic. A large part of this new construction is at risk," says Ruben Heezen of Bouwend Nederland, who points out the many ambitions of the government, but that the surface area of ​​our country is limited. "We want to keep an aviation hub, build homes and participate in the energy transition. If as a government you want to tighten existing rules, you have to look at all the consequences. That seems to be missing at the moment."
Minister Ollongren and State Secretary Van Veldhoven deny that no more construction can take place in the future noise zones. “The municipality must assess the acceptability of the added noise. If this is well substantiated, construction can be done with that data," explains the spokesperson for the State Secretary. "How they substantiate this depends on local policy." The underlying documents indeed show that municipalities can build if this is in the 'general interest'.
The ministry seems to realize that the 'public interest' is not a license to relax local rules and that more needs to be done to be able to build. "Additional measures, for example by building homes in such a way that they also have a quiet side, can help to reduce nuisance," the ministries of the two D66 ministers suggest.
Municipalities fear years of delays for housing construction projects, if not cancellation of plans. “This noise bureaucracy is locking down society. We just have to figure it out as municipalities. I see extremely complex and contradictory decision-making coming my way," says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop, under the flight path of Schiphol.
"It will be very difficult for municipalities to motivate people to build homes in a poor living environment," says Heezen of Bouwend Nederland. "There are already existing regulations for noise standards, maintain and enforce them. Then we can do without additional obstacles to solving the growing housing shortage."
An example is the municipality of Lelystad, which has offered to build 10,000 additional homes to alleviate the worst needs. At the same time, the current airport near the polder city will be made suitable for holiday flights. The municipality does not want to choose, because it believes that economic development is also needed.
"The functioning of airports - which limits municipalities in their growth - and the national construction task must not get in the way of each other. We want to discuss this with the minister with the aim of ensuring that this scheme does not reach the finish line in terms of cumulation," says a spokesperson. Another fear that exists is the legal side of the coin. Will the Council of State soon proceed as it did with the nitrogen problem for new construction projects? "The Council of State is already overloaded, where matters sometimes remain unresolved for two years," says housing market professor Peter Boelhouwer of TU Delft. “There will soon be a need for prior consultation with various stakeholders. That takes extra time. Moreover, the option to file an objection remains available. This is already happening on a large scale against residential construction, for various reasons. The people who already have a home do not feel the urgency of the shortage. It now takes an average of ten years to get a housing project off the ground in the Netherlands, while in countries around us it takes two to three years."
Lawyers Pieter van der Woerd and Pim Oremans of NewGround Law do not think that the judge will dismiss construction plans. "The new regulation does not impose binding rules against which judges can assess permits or zoning plans," the two experts write in their weblog. They also do not expect a problem with choices made by municipalities in advance.
Carefully
"A weighing of interests between noise climate and an acute housing shortage is largely a local political issue. If the judge intervened, he would quickly take the driver's seat. People are usually very careful about that." But in politics in The Hague, they also have different experiences with the judiciary after the nitrogen debacle and Urgenda verdict. Alderman Elkhuizen mainly sees a parallel with the nitrogen dossier. The consequences of rules were not covered at the time. That happened in court last year, causing the country to go into lockdown.
"With the law in hand, stakeholders will soon be able to undo the limited option we have for new construction in court. Because these new calculation rules are laid down in the Environmental Act and the word 'public interest' is a legally extremely flexible concept, as the nitrogen file has now taught us."
Lelystad is digging in its heels
PDF file of this document

Load Date: July 31, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")