Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Clean-up costs for companies'; PvdD wants more regulations
The Telegraph
April 30, 2021 Friday
Amsterdam


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 12
Length: 328 words
Byline: Mike Muller
Body


PvdD wants more regulations
by Mike Muller
Amsterdam - Fast food chains, catering establishments and supermarkets must be responsible for cleaning up litter within a radius of 150 meters from their business. With this far-reaching plan comes party leader Johnas van Lammeren of the Party for the Animals.
Van Lammeren believes that by making companies pay extra costs, they will also provide less packaging material. "After a summer day you see a blue sea of ​​plastic bags from Albert Heijn in the parks. And you don't have to look long for a McDonald's in the city, because a trail of litter will lead you to it."
He continues: "Both companies are high in the top ten of found litter. Supermarkets, fast food chains and catering companies make high profits on the sale of their products, but the costs of cleaning up their litter are then borne by the taxpayer and the environment also pays a high price. I want to change that."
The councilor, who previously managed to implement the YES-YES sticker in the city in the fight against fewer leaflets, wants Amsterdam to take a pioneering role in tackling litter.
New law
"It is legally possible to hold companies liable for the litter they cause within a radius of 25 meters. The Environmental Act to be introduced offers new opportunities. We propose an expanded version of this rule that would make business chains within a radius of 150 meters responsible for the litter they produce," he says.
Van Lammeren thinks he can achieve less litter on the streets by making large chains responsible. "The clean-up obligation makes companies aware of their own litter and stimulates them to find smarter solutions. The new measure will slow down the production of litter by business chains." He also wants to present an annual 'litter award' to the city's dirtiest companies.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 29, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")