Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=In the morning Jan Klink was almost a Member of Parliament; Column

NRC.NEXT
March 25, 2021 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 2
Length: 512 words
Byline: Petra de Koning
Body


In the hall of the House of Representatives, newly elected MPs received their access card, their own email address and a telephone. They had their pictures taken and were interviewed by civil servants who would write short pieces about them for the House of Representatives website. That was twenty minutes, but there were those who stayed for more than 45 minutes to tell who they were, where they came from, what they wanted to achieve in politics.
It was Monday afternoon. An MP in sweatpants and a sweater walked past the tables with newcomers. Almost gone, he was no longer on his party's list of candidates. Four years ago, wearing a gray suit and a pink tie, he had told such an official that he wanted to "close the gap between population groups" and increase "mutual respect".
Pieter Duisenberg, chairman of the association of universities VSNU, also walked past the tables on Monday afternoon. He had just performed in a video to explain to new MPs how they could use scientific knowledge as best as possible. Duisenberg had worked for years at the top of the business community before becoming a Member of Parliament himself in 2012 - for the VVD.
We looked at the newcomers together and Duisenberg said that at first he thought that because of that background he had a lot to offer his party and the country. But no one had asked him what he had to offer. He was given education as his portfolio. Duisenberg did not sound bitter. He felt he could have done a lot, learned a lot.
On Monday morning Jan Klink was sitting at the table in the hall. Farmer's son from Groningen, agricultural economist, number 35 on the VVD candidate list, 36 years old. That morning, according to the provisional election results, he was a new Member of Parliament. Not anymore in the afternoon, when his party suddenly had 34 seats.
When I speak to Jan Klink on the phone a day later, he calls it "a great shame". He is an alderman in Wijdemeren, and there is already a successor. Now he almost certainly has to wait until an The new cabinet is with the VVD and MPs will become ministers or state secretaries. The VVD has become used to power, Klink is not worried.
In his conversation with an official, he had said that he wanted to reduce "the gap between city and countryside". What he experienced on his parents' farm resembles the story of outgoing Minister of Agriculture Carola Schouten, who as a child lost his father in an accident with an agricultural machine. Klink was 15 when his father fell under a manure injector, possibly due to a brain haemorrhage, and died.
As a Member of Parliament he would like to speak about agriculture. But what if they don't ask him? "As a councilor, I am also responsible for childcare, education, the environmental law. We'll see."
And the gap that needs to be closed - the same pieces will appear about it in four years' time.
Petra de Koning (p.dekoning@nrc.nl; @pdekoning) writes a column here every Thursday.
The new MPs were allowed to talk about their ideals for twenty minutes
Link to PDF

Notes

Petra de Koning (p.dekoning@nrc.nl; @pdekoning) writes a column here every Thursday.

Load Date: March 24, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")