Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Too little help with road closures'; The municipality states: we provide tailor-made solutions
The Telegraph
October 13, 2022 Thursday
Haaglanden


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 12
Length: 465 words
Byline: Tanja Verkaik
Body


The municipality states: we provide tailor-made solutions
by Tanja Verkaik
THE HAGUE - The city council of The Hague is looking at tailor-made solutions when it comes to affected entrepreneurs who are inaccessible due to the work on tram line 16. Alderman Saskia Bruines promised this in a debate on Wednesday. Entrepreneurs are happy that the city council is looking for a solution, but find the commitments 'not yet concrete enough'.
“There must now be a compensation scheme with retroactive effect. Because the Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, which means that this regulation will disappear in this form," says owner Jim den Harder of the Old Fashion catering business in the Zeeheldenkwartier. "I don't even have skin left on my bones." PvdA councilor Mairan Sewtahal also thought the councilors' promises were 'empty shells'. They are beating around the bush." ​​Ralf Sluijs of Hart voor Den Haag, who requested the debate, also misses quick solutions for entrepreneurs in the Zeeheldenkwartier, Scheveningen and the center, who have been difficult to reach for months due to construction sites. "Entrepreneurs have no insight into anything. The city council has unleashed an unprecedented amount of bullying on this city and must take political responsibility," says the councilor.
'Swipe sign'
The fact that the existing disadvantage compensation scheme, which the councilor now also wants to use for us, is only used about ten times each year is 'a bad sign', says Den Harder. "On average, the request of one to three applicants is honored," Bruines explained. This may also be due to the fame of this scheme. "Entrepreneurs who only have an open street for two weeks are not eligible for disadvantage compensation, but especially for entrepreneurs who suffer a loss of turnover for a long time through no fault of their own," the councilor indicated.
Bruines is looking at the possibility of having these entrepreneurs make an appointment directly at city hall for a personal meeting. This also applies to starting entrepreneurs." Councilor Alexander Roep (VVD) points out that the requests will be answered quickly. "There is a period of eight weeks, which can also be extended by eight weeks. " Bruines asks for a few days to work out the details. Councilor Anne Mulder (Mobility) promised to do everything she can to have the work completed in the Zeeheldenkwartier on December 23. There will also be a discussion with entrepreneurs about solutions, such as better signage and loading and unloading areas. Bruines and Mulder will make a working visit together to the hard-hit Zeeheldenkwartier. "These are moving stories of the entrepreneur through which despair seeps through. And that is also understandable after two corona years and now road closures," said Mulder
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 12, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")