Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Far too few civil servants'
The Telegraph
April 29, 2022 Friday
Utrecht


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 12
Length: 291 words
Body


by Michiel van Renselaar
WOERDEN - Woerden officials are in a tight spot. Due to a huge staff shortage, it is impossible for them to keep up with all the applications for spatial plans. Because the work is piling up, the municipality is putting on the brakes.
Residents and entrepreneurs will have to wait longer for a response. The municipality of Stichtse Vecht already reported last week that the workload is far too high due to a lack of staff.
A large number of teams at the Woerden town hall are understaffed, the municipality reports in a statement, which was also signed by Oudewater. "This plays a role municipally-wide, from Stadserf to social domain, from archives to spatial initiatives," the municipality said.
One reason cannot be mentioned. "Corona, problems with filling vacancies due to a very tight labor market, more housing initiatives, the arrival of the Environmental Act, reception of Ukrainian refugees; There are all kinds of causes that cause backlogs."
The department that assesses spatial initiatives in particular has a mountain of overdue work. "The municipality receives many initiatives, both for large projects (housing, business locations, recreational and social facilities) and smaller private initiatives (changes to a zoning plan for a plot, apply for an environmental permit).
The municipality says it is doing everything it can to solve the problem. There is a strong search for additional staff, both permanent and temporary. Furthermore, priorities are set. Nevertheless, officials can no longer process new feasibility requests. This applies at least until September 1. Then everything is examined again.
Woerden
comes in the
issues
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 28, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")