Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='They threw us out with two children'; Fred's home suddenly turned out to be a holiday home
The Telegraph
August 18, 2023 Friday
Amsterdam


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 12
Length: 519 words
Byline: Marijn Schrijver
Body


Fred's home suddenly turned out to be a holiday home
by Marijn Schrijver
AMSTERDAM - Fred Bostdorp would prefer to live in his home on the Diemerzeedijk every day of the year. But that's not allowed. It is officially a recreational home. That is why he is now forced to live in Purmerend. The VVD would like to see this differently.
"I have always lived here, I was more or less born here," says Bostdorp. First with his parents and in 1988 he moved into his own home, which he was able to buy in 2010. "There seemed to be no problem," he says. "Until we wanted to replace the house."
The house of about 90 square meters on the water dates from 1921. When Bostdorp wanted to rebuild it, it turned out that it was not possible within the zoning plan. It is located in a recreational area. “The municipality started an enforcement procedure. This meant that we had to leave immediately in 2019, on penalty of 6,500 euros."
Suddenly Bostdorp was on the street. He first had to stay with his daughter and eventually found social housing in Purmerend. Procedures, up to the Council of State, yielded no results. “That makes you quite frustrated. The dividing line between the recreational and residential areas runs straight through our house," he says.
Now he can only stay in the house in the summer. "In practice, I am very careful, because there is a lot of enforcement involved. There are few in the winter." Meanwhile, he now spends much more time and kilometers for his work. "I always say: I want my place of residence back. The municipality says I never had it, but they just made mistakes with the new zoning plan."
He longs to find peace again. “There is something within the community that is against us. They keep coming up with excuses. But there are houses next to ours. There is water, light, internet. What's the real reason? They just threw us out and put two children on the street."
The VVD wants to help. Frans van Vliet, district committee member in East, has now asked questions. Party member and Member of Parliament Peter de Groot is also on the issue. "You see these kinds of situations all the time," says the latter. Last year he submitted a motion calling for recreational parks to be transformed into residential areas.
Housing crisis
Municipalities could arrange it themselves through the new Environmental Act, although this has been postponed. "I don't have much confidence that municipalities will do that," says De Groot. "They seem to want to keep recreational homes at all costs, while such parks (the Diemerzeedijk is not in a park, ed. ) there is almost no recreation anymore. There is often no longer even a reception."
If holiday homes then comply with all building regulations, they could become regular homes as far as the VVD member is concerned. If you look at the whole of the Netherlands, this could free up a lot of homes in the housing crisis. "It is crazy that people are forced to have an extra home because of this," he says. Next month, the House will debate De Groot's plan.
'Something in the municipality is against us'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 17, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")