Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Fund to bridge the construction dip for two years'
De Telegraaf.nl
October 26, 2023 Thursday 7:14 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; DFT/NEWS
Length: 642 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Dateline: Maarssen
Body


There must be a fund that ensures that young people are retained in the construction sector for the next two years. Due to the decline in new construction, reorganizations cannot be ruled out.
This was said by FNV director Hans Crombeen on Thursday at a conference of the Economic Institute for Construction. It expects the number of building permits to drop by 25% this year. “The workload is expected to decline further, partly as a result of new regulations that will soon come into effect. We are not yet seeing any reorganizations among builders, but one concern is whether we can retain young people in the sector if that is the case later due to the loss of work," says Crombeen.
 ABN Amro backtracks on prediction: houses will still be more expensive in 2024 | Money | Telegraaf.nl
In fact, 100,000 homes should be built per year. But due to a lack of locations where large numbers of cheaper homes can be built, this will not get off the ground, despite subsidies that outgoing Housing Minister De Jonge has promised. Many housing factories have been set up, allowing construction to proceed considerably faster. "That won't make any difference if we don't work faster on the licensing side," notes the FNV director.
The EIB assumes a period in which construction lags behind the need for more houses. "The bad news is that this construction dip will probably last for two years," EIB director Taco van Hoek said on Thursday.
 Long waits, bad professionals and vague invoices: the number of conflicts between contractors and consumers is growing | Money | Telegraaf.nl
The FNV also fears new regulations. In recent years, the housing market has been heavily regulated by the government on all sides, while more flexibility is actually needed. Environmental requirements, affordability and planning requirements are stacked on top of each other. In the meantime, the nitrogen crisis continues. The so-called Quality Assurance Act will come into effect on January 1, Crombeen warns. “Municipalities do not know what is expected of them. They are reinventing the wheel to find out what exactly they should do when they see how things are going on the construction site. Contractors must also commit more themselves. That all costs man-hours, which do not go into permits.”
The union already sees the mood brewing. “The expectation is that housing construction will recover from the slump in two years. Exactly the time it takes to train a professional. During reorganizations, the young people are the first to leave. With the help of a fund, contractors can be helped to retain the young people who we will need again in the sector.”
 First blow in stagnating construction absorbed by self-employed people | Financial | Telegraaf.nl
During the last major crisis in construction, about 15 years ago, 80,000 jobs disappeared in the sector. Some later returned as self-employed, but others were lost, while construction desperately needs professionals. Crombeen: “More houses are simply needed, so all manpower will soon be needed.” According to EIB's own research, the construction industry needs 50,000 extra pairs of 'hands' to build the necessary houses, while a wave of retirements is also imminent.
WoningbouwersNL, the trade club for builders of private homes, mainly sees the new Environmental Act as a hurdle for housing construction in the next few years. For example, noise standards will play a major role in this, but in this area too the wheel still has to be reinvented in practice.
“All zoning plans will be canceled, resulting in an enormous administrative operation for the municipalities. We are currently no longer able to get through to an official when we want to apply for a permit. But municipalities are also not obliged to participate in a project.”

Graphic

 
Image, Young construction workers are the first to leave, photo ANP/HH

Load Date: October 27, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")