Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Enough people want to live near Schiphol'
De Telegraaf.nl
July 1, 2021 Thursday 7:28 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; DFT/NEWS; FRONT PAGE
Length: 968 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Body


Nature and Environment North Holland caused a stir a few weeks ago with a plan for housing construction near Schiphol. While Schiphol's opponents always complained about the nuisance, it appears that there is room to build anyway. Many municipalities around Schiphol want to build more, but the strict noise standards around the airport prevent that. This has split the Schiphol Environmental Council in recent years, because aviation does not want to create new inconveniences. Other approach routes or the closure of runways makes it possible to build more homes, says director Sijas Akkerman.
Who wants to live near Schiphol?
“There are plenty of people who want to live and work around Schiphol, and there is also a major housing development target in the Randstad. But due to the location of Schiphol, less can be built.”
Additional housing construction will cause more inconvenience, because the airport will remain there.
“In our opinion, the housing shortage in the Schiphol region is more important than the airport. The corona crisis is a good reason for reflection. If Schiphol's runways are used differently, there will no longer be any nuisance in some places around the airport such as Aalsmeer and you can build around 120,000 homes. You can combine this with a different exit route from the Kaagbaan. But in such a way that nuisance does not increase elsewhere.”
Reducing the number of take-offs and landings leaves little room for construction. How is that possible?
“That is why all runways are still in use. And there is slightly less disruption everywhere around Schiphol, but planes still fly low over homes everywhere. Quieter aircraft also provide construction space in the longer term due to less noise. The latter can yield a maximum of 20,000 additional homes, but more is needed. Adjusting flight routes is also a relatively easy step and good for around 40,000 homes.”
What are the consequences of runway closures?
“That means the end of Schiphol's transfer system, because the daily peaks in which the passenger flows are now brought together can no longer be facilitated. We believe that Schiphol can no longer continue in the way it is currently organized. The environment is suffering too much from it, which is why shrinkage is necessary.”
However, the houses around Schiphol are still very popular. Then the nuisance won't be too bad, right?
“There will be a new Environmental Act, in which the government will add up all environmental noise. It was previously said that this means that 365,000 homes in the region cannot be built. This law has now been postponed, but I get the impression that it will be introduced anyway. The consequences of this new law are even more drastic than our plan, because then nothing can be built at all. So our proposal is: let's see together what is possible.”
The abandonment of the so-called hub system is very drastic for KLM and the Dutch economy.
“We think this will not be too bad. I receive emails from worried KLM employees. Their jobs are at stake, I understand that. But I expect that KLM employees will be able to find another job in construction, healthcare or technology, many of them have a technical background and they are go-getters. KLM must focus on business destinations that have added value for the Dutch market, with fewer and smaller aircraft.”
The EU is committed to more flying, so aren't we, as the Netherlands, shooting ourselves in the foot with a small airport? Trade, education, services, logistics and tourism, hundreds of thousands of jobs are linked to it.
“I think that's stupid of the EU. The trend is undeniably moving towards lower CO2 emissions. I think it is a shame that the Netherlands seems to be a conservative country when it comes to sustainability, instead of wanting to be ahead in the world. Step forward and innovate, in five or ten years that will create the most jobs. That would be my message.”
Schiphol must return to 400,000 takeoffs and landings if it does not receive a nature permit. Does this make your plan redundant?
“If no permit is granted, this plan can be used to show where homes could be built. But first of all there is a cabinet formation that politicians will hopefully make decisions on, in addition to the ministry's decision on the permit. The nitrogen problem has not yet been solved, so I expect it will be a difficult story.”
The airport itself is once again dreaming of growth, as a result of quieter aircraft.
“Until now, I understood that Schiphol assumed 500,000 flight movements, the same as before the corona crisis. Now that the growth option is back on the table, I think it is bad that Schiphol pretends that the nuisance-reducing measures will yield something. That's hardly the case. A night's sleep with airplane noise may still be possible, but just keep that up for five years.”
Why not look at options other than downsizing? For example, insulation, a property tax allowance or buyout?
“That doesn't make the noise go away. Insulation does not help enough. Airplane noise goes through everything. Moreover, you still cannot sit outside in the garden in peace. This leads to health risks, as the WHO and RIVM already concluded.”
For years, the environmental movement campaigned against Schiphol. Now suddenly houses have to be built. The noise zones are there for a reason.
“In recent years, politicians did not want to make choices and just muddled through. You may want to build somewhere else, but where? Then we have to fill up nature reserves around the cities in the region. We don't want that. We are in favor of inner-city construction, and in this region you are often in the noise zone of Schiphol. We should not cover up the nuisance discussion with tricks, but make choices.”

Graphic

 
Image, Sijas Akkerman believes the housing shortage in the Schiphol region is more important than the airport., René Bouwman

Load Date: July 2, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")