Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='New construction back to the level of just after the credit crisis'
De Telegraaf.nl
August 5, 2022 Friday 8:59 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; MONEY; DFT; DFT/NEWS; FRONT PAGE
Length: 362 words
Byline: Editor DFT Geld/ANP
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


There is a huge shortage of houses, but new construction is declining. The number of new-build homes offered and sold fell in the first quarter of this year to the level of just after the credit crisis, 2008 to 2013. This is not going to improve any time soon: the number of new-build homes for which a permit has been granted was 15% lower between January and May than in the same period last year, and within the purchasing sector even more than 20% less.
This is evident from the new Housing Market Monitor from the Housing Value Expertise Center of TU Delft. In the first quarter of this year, 4,500 new-build homes were offered and 5,500 sold. This means that the government's ambitious targets - 100,000 new homes per year - are far from being achieved. Even the old target of 75,000 seems far out of sight.
Slight cooling
House prices have been rising sharply for quite some time. Real estate agents, among others, have been saying for some time that more homes must be added to really calm down the housing market, which has recently shown signs of a slight cooling down. Despite the sharp increase in mortgage interest rates, prices continued to rise in the first half of 2022. However, a house is outbid slightly less often and by far.
According to experts, further delays in new construction production are almost inevitable. The monitor states that new construction is struggling with material and personnel shortages and rising construction costs, among other things. In addition, governments seem to focus mainly on inner-city construction and there is more emphasis on more expensive apartments in the city, while many people are looking for a completely different home. Furthermore, experts fear that the introduction of the Environmental Act in January will lead to a delay in housing construction.
Nitrogen
The nitrogen exemption for residential construction is also in danger of being stopped by the courts. The construction industry is eagerly awaiting a ruling from the Council of State later this year on the construction exemption for the large Porthos CO2 storage project in the port of Rotterdam. If the highest administrative court were to revoke that exemption, experts fear that more construction projects may have to be halted.

Graphic

 
Image, The new building has completely collapsed. Ambitious goals seem very far away., ANP / Hans van Rhoon

Load Date: August 6, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")