Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Welfare inhibits housing construction'
The Telegraph
May 4, 2018 Friday
Rotterdam


Copyright 2018 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 14
Length: 450 words
Byline: Maarten Ritman
Body


VVD wants to get rid of negative committee judgments
by Maarten Ritman
ROTTERDAM - The aesthetics committee in Rotterdam is slowing down the municipality's construction task, according to the VVD. Advice would only be necessary for protected faces.
The Maasstad must build fifty thousand new homes in the coming years. Last year, the 'construction record' of recent years was broken with 3,750 new homes. This year we have to go above and beyond again.
Yet the VVD sees the future of construction bleakly. For example, the aesthetics committee has made a negative assessment of the water houses in the Nassauhaven. “The houses would not be nautical enough,” sighs councilor Pascal Lansink. “Let them throw a sloop for it.”
The aesthetic committee investigates 'whether a building plan meets certain spatial quality requirements and fits well into the environment where it will be built'. “But of course it is extremely subjective; let other members of the committee look at those homes today and they think they are beautiful," says Lansink.
His party is not in favor of the committee, but in these times of scarcity on the housing market and an enormous construction task, the VVD no longer sees a role for a 'frivolity' such as the aesthetics committee.
“We'll never make it this way, the steam is coming out of my ears. If everyone can piss on every plan then we will never be finished. We have great ambitions as a municipality, but the aesthetics committee forces us to adjust that ambition when they are in charge.”
The committee, consisting of architects and an architectural historian, also reviews applications for a monument. Both the municipal welfare policy and the monument policy are taken into account. As far as Lansink is concerned, this is an excellent task for the committee to focus primarily on.
“Let them occupy themselves only with protected faces. Rotterdam is internationally known for its innovative architecture, and plenty of space should be given to that," he believes.
The market should be leading, the VVD member believes. “The houses that are now being demolished have all been sold subject to conditions, and the buyers are very enthusiastic about them. That is what it should be about.”
According to him, the welfare memorandum on which the committee's policy is based is outdated in any case. “It is no longer of this time. And how will things develop in the future with the new environmental law that is coming? Then there is no room for this kind of nonsense.”
Lansink has submitted written questions to the city council about the issue and wants to know how much delay the negative decision will cause and whether the council wants to adjust its welfare policy.
'Just advice
at monument'

Load Date: May 3, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")