Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Housing construction to zero due to new law'
De Telegraaf.nl
December 5, 2021 Sunday 4:03 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT
Length: 517 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


New construction will become impossible in the Netherlands when the new Environmental Act is introduced next year. Regional and local administrators already sounded the alarm last year, but hardly anything has changed. The noise rules add to a pile of other rules that are already making housing construction difficult.
Next week the House of Representatives will discuss the housing crisis. 1 million homes must be added by 2030, but large-scale construction plans have not yet been made.
Deputy Jeroen Olthof of the province of North Holland says that the construction of 70,000 homes in his region is at stake. He already sounded the alarm last year on behalf of four provinces and 56 municipalities, which have signed up for 380,000 homes. “Nothing has changed in the Environmental Act since we raised the alarm with the minister last year. We are hitting walls at the ministry. This is actually unnecessary regulation. Nothing will change for existing residents, but new construction will become practically impossible.”
There are currently separate calculation rules for wind turbines, industry, railways, highways and aviation. These noisemakers will soon be added together in one new sum. The new Environmental Act must come into effect from 2022. Everything must become simpler and more balanced. At least that is what outgoing minister D66 Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs) intends.
The Ministry of the Interior states in a response that it will soon be the municipalities' turn to decide 'what is acceptable' with regard to noise. “After all, the municipality is not only concerned with health, but also with providing sufficient living space,” says a spokesperson.
However, local administrators take a gloomy view. They are in danger of drowning in a swamp of even more rules. Moreover, it is already difficult to 'motivate' construction projects. For example, two weeks ago the Council of State sent the province of Brabant back to the drawing board, because the decision to build a new residential area between Den Bosch and Waalwijk was not sufficiently 'motivated'. .
In this case it was a nitrogen problem. And while there have been calls for central management for years, the national government continues to place more responsibilities on municipalities. “Better motivation means that municipalities explain this weighing of interests extra well. Additional measures in the area, for example adapted facades or quiet places, such as courtyards or parks, can help with motivation," said the Interior Ministry spokesperson.
But according to administrators, it does not even come down to the 'adapted facades' and talk about a paper reality in The Hague. “We have to build for our own residents, student housing, status holders, migrant workers, urgent seekers, flexible living and also social rental housing,” says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop. “At the same time, there is a cornucopia of rules regarding nitrogen, sustainability, climate-adaptive construction, nature legislation and, to top it all off, the accumulation of noise regulations in the upcoming Environmental Act. We have ended up in a situation where you as a director have no choice anymore.”

Graphic

 
Image, The construction of new homes is being smothered in regulations., photo ANP

Load Date: December 6, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")