Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Number of public toilets increases by almost two thousand, less 'sanitary sexism'
De Volkskrant.nl
November 16, 2023 Thursday 02:53 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 554 words
Byline: Marieke de Ruiter
Body


The Netherlands has more and more public toilets and they are increasingly accessible to women and disabled people. On average, one toilet now has to be shared with 2,200 others.
This is evident from research by the Stomach Liver Intestine Foundation. In collaboration with the HogeNood app, this annually maps out how many registered toilets a municipality has, how many residents those toilets have to be shared with and how they are distributed. According to the research, those in dire need are best off in West Maas and Waal. Residents of Rozendaal, Baarle-Nassau, Voerendaal and Waalre can only hope for a quiet grove or a sympathetic pub owner - there are no toilets there at all.
Since the first survey in 2020, the total number of toilets in the app increased from 6,600 to 8,300. Of these, seven hundred are public facilities. An increasing proportion is accessible to disabled people: half compared to one third during the first measurement.
About the author
Marieke de Ruiter is an economics reporter for de Volkskrant. She writes about the labor market and social security, among other things.
“Sanitary sexism” has also decreased. Previously, two-thirds of public toilets were not accessible to women, but now this is one-third with 220 urinals. “So we are really going in the right direction,” says spokesperson Ivo Thonen. “But we are still a long way from Germany and France.” For example, Paris alone has 750 public toilets for its 2 million inhabitants.
The lack of accessible toilets came into public attention six years ago thanks to Geerte Piening's lawsuit on this subject. After a night out in the capital, the Amsterdam woman needed to get rid of the consumed drink, but she could not find a women's toilet. She then relieved herself in an alley. It earned her a print worth 140 euros. Rightly so, the judge later ruled: Piening could also have relieved herself in a men's urinal. “Maybe not pleasant,” he admitted. “But it could be.”
'Pee protest'
The case became an international media spectacle and led – following the example of the Dolle Mina action group in the 1970s – to a 'peeing protest' by women ('nasty women'). The municipality of Amsterdam promised improvement with the installation of more female-friendly toilets. The city allocated 4 million euros for this at the beginning of this year.
Dozens of other municipalities, such as West Maas en Waal and Amersfoort, have also worked on providing more toilet facilities in recent years. Rotterdam has had an 'urban vision on public toilet facilities policy', also known as a 'said note', for much longer.
However, according to Thonen, the efforts do not go far enough. As far as he is concerned, there should be a national standard for the number of toilets in a municipality: one per 500 meters. Municipalities are now responsible for this themselves. “Our dream is that such an obligation will be included in the environmental law.”
According to Thonen, this is necessary because the Netherlands has approximately 3.5 million abdominal and bladder patients. According to research by his foundation, the lack of toilets would prevent half of them from going out regularly.
An earlier version of this article stated that the lack of toilets prevents a quarter of stomach and bladder patients from leaving the house, which should be half.

Load Date: November 17, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")