Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Advice: ICT poses a risk when the Environmental Act is introduced as of January 1
De Telegraaf.nl
October 11, 2022 Tuesday 9:11 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 354 words
Dateline: THE HAGUE
Body


It is a "dilemma" whether the Environmental Act should be introduced as of January 1, 2023, says the ICT Assessment Advisory Board in an advice to the Senate. According to the council, there are still "significant limitations" in "the state of the Digital System of the Environment Act" (DSO) that entail risks if the introduction continues on January 1.
The DSO supports the implementation of the new Environmental Act. This law should combine dozens of laws and regulations that currently apply regarding the living environment, so that it becomes easier to grant permits. But major problems can arise with the granting of building permits, for example, if the DSO does not work properly. Experts previously expressed their concerns about this if the new law came into effect on January 1.
It is possible to aim for January 1, but then "maximum effort" is needed to limit risks. The advisory board recognizes that there is little time left for this. Another option is a postponement of, for example, six months. This gives room for a “fundamental reorientation.”
The intention was to extensively test the DSO, but that was not successful. Municipalities or provinces that had to work with the DSO had insufficient testing capacity. Moreover, not all functions in the DSO were ready yet and therefore could not be tested. Therefore, there is "insufficient certainty" whether the DSO is stable and reliable enough to operate as of January 1.
If the Environmental Act does come into effect on January 1, the council recommends, among other things, the use of so-called "temporary alternative measures" (TAMs). In fact, this means continuing the current licensing method. This system can temporarily exist alongside the new Environmental Act, as long as there is no 'proliferation' of measures.
The advisory board does point out that the more use is made of these 'TAMs', the more this is at the expense of ease of use. Policy is also becoming increasingly difficult for citizens to understand.
The introduction of the Environmental Act has already been postponed several times. In the coming weeks, the Senate will debate the introduction of the law.

Graphic

 
Image, Illustrative image, 123RF

Load Date: October 11, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")