Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ambitious construction ambitions. But are they also feasible?
NRC.nl
October 13, 2022 2:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1979 words
Byline: Mirjam Remie, Sjoerd Klumpenaar, Eppo König
Highlight: The provinces committed themselves on Thursday to the construction of 917,000 homes through 2030. But mortgage interest rates are rising, land is scarce and material costs are high. Minister Hugo de Jonge foresees “headwinds”. What are the major obstacles?
Body


On paper, the government's major construction ambition for 2030 has even been exceeded. Not 900,000, but 917,193 homes will be built to combat the housing shortage, Minister Hugo de Jonge (Housing, CDA) announced on Thursday in The Hague.
But are these construction agreements per province feasible, given, for example, rising interest rates and inflation, scarce land and high material costs? And if construction lags behind, how can De Jonge intervene to take back “control of public housing”, as he calls it?
“No one is bound to the impossible,” De Jonge acknowledged during a press conference. “I know there will be resistance.” To repeat his motto: “If there is more headwind, you have to pedal harder.” In other words: all parties involved will have to make an extra effort.
With these construction agreements, provinces have in any case set their goals, De Jonge explained. The government, in turn, is trying to give market parties "as much certainty as possible" so that they can make long-term construction plans.
Of the more than 917,000 planned homes, two-thirds must become "affordable".
In case it doesn't work out, the Public Housing Management Act is in the making, De Jonge said. The bill should be ready at the end of this year, with introduction scheduled for 2024. The law should allow the cabinet to have more control over where and what is built for whom. For example, in the event of persistent conflicts about a construction location, the minister can intervene.
But this law is also no guarantee for an additional 917,000 homes by 2030, De Jonge acknowledged. “Laws don't build houses, ministers don't stand on the construction scaffolding,” he said. If construction gets stuck somewhere, the government will first look for a solution with provinces and market parties, such as financial support.
Of the more than 917,000 planned homes, two-thirds must become "affordable". 350,000 rental and owner-occupied homes in the 'middle segment' must therefore be built, plus 250,000 social rental homes. Seventeen areas have been designated for large-scale housing construction; most are planned in North and South Holland, North Brabant and Gelderland.
From December, provinces and municipalities must elaborate the construction agreements announced on Thursday into 37 regional agreements. Here, housing associations and market parties, for example, record where and for which target group they will build.
The government is allocating almost 11 billion euros to accelerate the construction of more homes, for example for infrastructure around new residential areas. With the abolition of the landlord levy, further agreements have been made that housing associations will invest more than 60 billion euros in new construction.
That is a lot of money, but so far there has been little evidence of accelerated housing construction. The government wants to increase construction production to 100,000 homes per year. For comparison: an average of 86,000 new homes were completed annually between 2018 and 2021, according to research agency ABF. “A slight decrease” is expected this year based on the number of permit applications.
What are the major obstacles to the government's major construction ambitions?
1 The fight for space
Where is room for another 917,000 homes? The Netherlands now has more than 8 million homes, and there is already fighting over building land. “As land owners, municipalities have an interest in the scarcity, because it leads to higher land prices,” according to director of policy and association of trade organization Bouwend Nederland Joep Rats. There is controversy about construction along railway zones and old port areas and near nature and water areas, due to environmental and noise standards. A notorious example is the years-long discussion about the green polder Gnephoek near Alphen aan den Rijn. The municipality wanted to realize 8,000 homes; unaffordable and impractical, the province said. Minister De Jonge opted for a compromise this week: 5,500 homes.
The average handling time for construction disputes has increased to 43 weeks
Such disputes slow down the already slow decision-making process. More and more objectors are taking legal action all the way to the Council of State. The highest administrative judge used to handle 1,500 to 1,800 'environmental cases' per year. Last year there were 2,200 construction disputes and the expectation of 2,800 cases this year is already outdated. “The average treatment time has increased to 43 weeks,” says a spokesperson. The introduction of the Environmental Act, which should simplify permitting, is currently scheduled for January 1, 2023. But due to problems with the software required for this law, further postponement cannot be ruled out.
2 Affordability is under pressure
Falling house prices are extra bad news for the government. The price of new-build homes is based on the value of homes surrounding the new-build, which means that it is expected that the price of new homes will also fall. Then the yields decrease. And yet costs are increasing due to higher interest rates and scarcity of materials and personnel.
High energy costs, increased mortgage rates and inflation make new construction less attractive for buyers
The new construction market is already in the doldrums, real estate agency association NVM reported last week. Real estate agents indicate that on average only the third or fourth potential buyer of a new-build home decides to purchase it. Not because there is no demand for new construction - sustainable houses are doing very well - but because of economic uncertainty: buyers do not dare to buy a house that will only be completed in a few years. Moreover, new construction is relatively expensive: more than half of new-build homes cost more than €500,000.
High energy costs, increased mortgage interest rates and inflation make new construction less attractive for buyers. And therefore also for builders and project developers. “There must be a flow for new construction,” says Joep Rats, director of policy and association of Bouwend Nederland. “If everyone continues to live where they live, there will be no flow. Then the market stagnates and fewer homes are built. Building correctly for flow is important.”
3 Staff shortages
Who is actually going to build all those homes? The shortage of skilled workers has been a common complaint among construction companies in recent years. The demand for personnel is especially high among installers and contractors; carpenters, electricians and work planners in particular are desperately needed.
Construction trade magazine Cobouw calculated that there is currently a shortage of 7,700 employees in construction. If we also include the turnover of construction workers who retire or become incapacitated for work, according to calculations by the Economic Institute for Construction (EIB), even 47,000 employees will be needed in the next four years. Partly due to the good career prospects, the construction courses are full again, but this does not help with the acute shortages.
Staff shortages are not only a problem in construction
As a quick solution, many large home builders choose to switch to industrial construction. Heijmans, Van Wijnen and BAM, among others, invested in 'housing factories', in which homes are built as 'blocks' that are stacked on top of each other on the construction site. Less labor intensive, faster – but less traditional.
By the way, staff shortages are not only a problem in construction. There is a significant shortage of civil servants in provinces and municipalities, which causes delays in procedures and it can sometimes take months for a permit to be assessed. According to research by engineering consultancy Sweco, the civil service is at least 6,500 people short of realizing the entire housing construction task.
4 Energy shortage
The overcrowded power grid also causes problems in construction. Both during the construction phase and afterwards. “We must build without nitrogen and emissions, but then there must be a connection with sufficient electricity,” says Richard Mulder, advisor at Bouwend Nederland and specialized in nitrogen. “Certainly in green areas, at a new construction location on the edge of a city, this is not always present. And you can't just connect construction equipment with a plug and an extension cord."
Some new construction plans lack suitable networks and sufficient power in a timely manner
And even once the houses are built, electricity is needed; especially because homes with a natural gas connection are no longer built. But some new construction plans lack suitable networks and sufficient power in a timely manner, say researchers Martijn Stroom and Jonas Wogh of Maastricht University. Stroom: “The government must properly inventory and plan what is possible. Especially with the arrival of large-scale consumers such as data centers in densely populated residential areas, and with the transition to a CO2-neutral Netherlands in 2050.” Wogh: “It actually requires renewing the entire electricity grid, but with the legal hassle, rising raw material prices, and the current shortage of construction workers, such a renewal seems far away. That could be disastrous for housing construction.”
5 Much more expensive building materials
After the corona crisis, the construction world was turned upside down by the explosive increase in demand for building materials. Glass, steel, insulation material: contractors had to go to great lengths to obtain materials. The most acute shortages have now been resolved, says Niels Ruijter, director of the Dutch Association for the Supplier of the Building Materials Industry (NVTB), but prices remain high. “Although we are looking into the economic abyss, the demand for almost all building materials remains high. This makes construction expensive, in addition to increasing energy and transport costs.”
Construction companies are more at risk because they cannot work below cost price
The high material prices and construction costs endanger the financial feasibility of construction projects. For example, the construction of a number of residential towers in The Hague, Eindhoven, Rotterdam and Utrecht, among others, was postponed - partly due to the high construction costs. Construction companies also run a greater risk because they sign up for tenders in advance and cannot work below cost price. To encourage housing associations to build more homes, the government phased out the landlord levy for housing associations. The levy made it expensive for corporations to own homes. A windfall, says Ruijter: “Housing associations now have more financial strength, and this must now be used to meet the housing construction task.”
6 Nitrogen
And finally: as with almost all construction problems, the nitrogen dossier for residential construction also plays a problematic role. For example, the 'construction exemption' will be examined by the Council of State at the end of this month. Because of this legal nonsense, only the nitrogen emissions of the ultimate user of a home are taken into account when applying for a permit, and not of the contractor who builds the house. After all, the emissions from a crane are temporary, compared to permanent nitrogen emissions from the ultimate residents - according to the cabinet.
Environmental organization MOB, however, believes that every gram of nitrogen is one too many, and hopes to be proven right by the Council of State. Chairman Jeroen Vollenbroek appealed against the permit for the Porthos construction project in the port of Rotterdam. Lawyers take into account that 'Porthos' will ensure that the construction exemption expires; MOB previously torpedoed the successful nitrogen program PAS via the highest administrative court. If the construction exemption expires, the temporary nitrogen emissions from construction machines suddenly also count towards the permit application for a housing project. In practice, this makes it even more difficult to obtain a nature permit in areas where there is already little nitrogen space. An inevitable consequence is more postponement of housing construction.

Also read: Housing shortage continues to increase: 315,000 too few homes this year

Load Date: October 13, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")