Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Anti-tripping sidewalk against obesity
The Telegraph
August 27, 2019 Tuesday
Utrecht


Copyright 2019 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 14
Length: 468 words
Byline: Michiel van Renselaar
Body


The municipality wants to get seniors to exercise more
by Michiel van Renselaar
BREUKELEN - The municipality of Stichtse Vecht is working on a 'stumble-free senior route' to combat obesity among the elderly. More than half of the people over sixty-five in Stichtse Vecht are too fat. Meanwhile, the majority of seniors barely exercise. This is partly due to an inaccessible physical environment.
Thresholds, sidewalks that are too tight or obstacles on the road. Several places in the Stichtse Vecht villages are not accessible (with a walker). 150 minutes of exercise every week is therefore not possible for many.
A bad thing, according to the municipal council, because elderly residents are getting fatter and fatter. "The figures on obesity among seniors show the beginning of a worrying pattern: both the percentage of overweight people over 65 and the percentage of elderly people with obesity have been increasing since 2012," the council writes in the Positive Health Policy 2020-2023 memorandum.
58 percent of seniors were overweight in 2016. In 17 percent of the cases it was even about obesity. Maarssenbroek has the most elderly people with weight problems; 65 percent of all people over sixty-five were overweight in 2016.
More than 40 percent of older residents still exercise at least once a week. They are often members of an association or visit the local gym.
But more than half of seniors (53 percent) do not meet the exercise guidelines. The municipal council mentions two causes. On the one hand, elderly people hardly move because they don't leave the house; loneliness is a fattener. On the other hand, it is sometimes impossible for people over 65 to remain active.
"Conversations with social partners and residents show that seniors especially benefit from a physical environment that makes it possible to continue exercising for a long time, such as wide, easily accessible sidewalks," the council said.
That is why, over the next four years, we will focus on 'an accessible outdoor space for seniors that encourages them to exercise'. The municipal council: 'In doing so, we are in line with the Environmental Act, which is expected to come into effect in 2021.'
The council has set itself the goal that more elderly people will meet the exercise guidelines by 2022.
The municipality and Sportpunt Stichtse Vecht are also working on an accessible sports program for seniors. The two also hope to reduce loneliness in this way.
The council will submit the Positive Health Policy memorandum to the municipal council on September 10. With the plan, councilor Hetty Veneklaas wants to encourage residents in a positive way to make healthy choices. “We do not want to condemn residents for unhealthy choices. Raising the finger is outdated," said the councilor.

Load Date: August 26, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")