Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Binckhorst becomes a green water district; Realization will take at least ten years
The Telegraph
December 15, 2015 Tuesday


Copyright 2015 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 12
Length: 497 words
Byline: Plum, Fred
Body


 by Germa Graveland
The Hague - The bleak industrial estate De Binckhorst in The Hague is finally getting the transformation that has been promised for many years. But it will not be 'Manhattan on the Trekvliet' with megalomaniac apartment buildings, the municipal council wants a more modest variant with a focus on living on the water and in greenery.
Yesterday, councilor Boudewijn Revis presented the plans for the new residential area in The Hague from the ninth floor of the famous Binckhorst Tower. From that height, the current clear-cut area around Binckhorstlaan is clearly visible. The last block of houses will be demolished just after New Year's Eve for the construction of the Rotterdamsebaan. The multitude of vacant office buildings and the fully built-in castle also give the area of ​​a total of 130 hectares a sad look. But not for long. “Now you mainly see a lot of sheds, little greenery, lots of stones and shadowy side streets. But it is a prime location. The area lends itself to being redeveloped, while retaining its industrial character," said the councilor. The city council is already starting to tackle the outdoor space. A total of 10 million euros has been allocated for the planting of trees and the renovation of the quays. But realization of the entire plan will take at least ten years. The idea is to give the BInckhorsthaven, the Fokkerhaven and the newly constructed Poolsterhaven each their own character. The latter, with water storage, will give tour organizations in particular more space. Because the municipal yard and waste processing are also located there, there will be no large-scale further development. This is different at the Fokkerhaven with the Trekvliet zone. There will be a 'green heart'. This can be done by bringing Sint Barbara cemetery and the 17th century De Binckhorst castle more into view. The office in front of the castle will be demolished and greenery will be added there. An area should be created along the Trekvliet where people can live, start a business or go out. There are possibilities here for the construction of 750 to 1,000 homes and the realization of 8,000 to 11,000 square meters of commercial space. A street is being constructed that runs along the Fokkerhaven, parallel to the Binckhorstlaan. The advantage of the area is that the municipality owns many warehouses and buildings and can therefore play a steering role. The role of the municipality is smaller at Binckhorsthaven, but things are already going well there with the arrival of innovative and creative companies. An example for Revis is the business complex in the former Caballero factory. The factories such as the asphalt and concrete plant will also remain. But because the Binckhorst has been designated as a pilot area for the environmental law, it is probably easy for the establishment of new companies. And Revis also wants to promote this by redesigning the area. He has already started at Saturnusstraat. There will also be a pedestrian bridge from Maanplein to Binckhorsthaven.

Load Date: December 14, 2015


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")