Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Conflicting interests meet an ambitious vision
NRC.NEXT
November 28, 2019 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 4
Length: 781 words
Byline: Arjen Schreuder
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
Interview Kees Linse Chairman of environmental impact assessment
The objectives of the National Environmental Vision are not all achievable at the same time, is the conclusion of the environmental advisory committee.
COMPLETE TEXT:
         Enough ambition. In thirty years' time, we want to be a "healthy and climate-proof" country with a circular "excellently functioning economy", with "pleasant and vital cities and villages, and a productive and attractive countryside", a country where you can "quickly and easy' travel, with space to 'exercise and relax', a country that is also protected from 'floods and other dangers'.
These are the views from the provisional National Environmental Vision, which should provide "direction and inspiration" for the spatial planning of the Netherlands. The vision is part of the new Environmental Act, which must come into effect in more than a year, intended for a "good balance between utilizing and protecting the physical environment".
The question is whether this will work, says Kees Linse, chairman of the national Commission for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). His committee recently issued advice on the environmental impact report that accompanies this vision, which describes what consequences the spatial choices will have for the environment. Linse: “I respect the ambitions in the vision. There is no beating around the bush. It describes the areas in which something needs to be done: climate, economy, cities and agriculture. But the question is whether all ambitions can be achieved simultaneously. It is difficult to fit all these feet in one shoe. Our question is: where is the problem?"
Limits to growth
The information in the environmental report is "insufficiently specific" to determine whether all goals with the scarce space are actually achievable; the government must therefore "adjust" the report, the committee believes. Take economic growth. This will be accompanied by the growth of mobility such as aviation, shipping and other traffic. The environmental vision believes it can be based on a circular and low greenhouse gas economy, "where economic growth and environmental pressure are decoupled". But mobility growth "can collide with energy and climate, the available space in the Netherlands, nitrogen-sensitive nature, the accessibility of cities and regions and people's health," the committee notes. "These effects are not sufficiently understood," says committee chairman Linse. "You cannot simply eliminate the consequences of economic growth by saying: we are all going to work from home."
The EIA committee recommends conducting "crash tests"; experiments to determine where interests conflict. For example, what are the effects of building a million homes in the next ten years? "We are building as much as possible within existing urban areas, so that we are open preserve spaces and greenery between cities," the preliminary environmental vision states. But anyone who builds all homes within existing cities increases the risks of poorer air quality, noise pollution, opportunities for exercise and green areas. And what are the effects on landscape, nature and accessibility if you decide, for example, to build 20 or 40 percent of those necessary homes outside the urban area? "An analysis is missing here," the committee says. Or take the effects of sustainably generated energy. The environmental vision preferably wants to have solar panels installed on roofs. But if that produces too little energy, more solar meadows will have to be created. Is there room for this? Something like this has "significant landscape effects", according to the advice.
A 'nature-inclusive' agriculture
The final dilemma: the pursuit of both emission-free circular agriculture, good for halving national nitrogen deposition, and land-based, "nature-inclusive" agriculture. These targets "seem difficult to reconcile", according to the advice. For example, nature-inclusive agriculture is "certainly not emission-free". On the other hand, animal welfare can be compromised with emission-free agriculture, "because fresh air in the stable and outdoor enclosures or grazing in closed systems is not possible". Conclusion of the advice: "Smart combinations of functions are necessary to achieve goals, but have not yet been researched enough."
The Ministry of the Interior "appreciates" the advice and will respond in a letter to Parliament in February, a spokesperson said.
The effects of growth in mobility have not been sufficiently mapped out
Kees Linse, committee chairman
Link to PDF

Load Date: November 27, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")