Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Construction projects are delayed because citizens are much more likely to lodge protests with the highest court
NRC.nl
April 19, 2022 8:41 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 292 words
Byline: Tobiah Palm
Highlight: The number of construction-related cases at the Council of State increased to 2,300 last year. A year earlier there were still around 1,800. Due to a staff shortage, the Council cannot properly handle that number.
Body


In recent years, citizens have increasingly turned to the Council of State in an attempt to stop construction plans. The number of lawsuits before the Environmental Chamber, which judges on construction-related issues, increased last year to more than 2,300. In 2020, there were still 1,820 cases. The Council does not have enough staff for the number of cases, causing construction projects to be delayed. A spokesperson for the Council of State confirmed this after reporting from Trouw.
The Council of State aims to have every construction case resolved within one year. That is not always possible, says the spokesperson. The Council, like many other organizations, is struggling with a staff shortage. In particular, there are too few clerks who prepare cases legally. Due to the increasing number of cases and the shortage of staff, cases are taking longer than desired. It is not known how many cases last longer than a year, according to the spokesperson.
It is also not clear why the number of lawsuits has increased in recent years. According to the spokesperson, a possible explanation is the arrival of the - often postponed - new Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2023. Municipalities may implement their construction plans before that law comes into effect, the spokesperson says. And more building plans means more protests. “But that is speculation.”
Citizens are mainly opposed to large-scale projects, such as wind farms, the spokesperson says. According to him, this is nothing new: when construction plans are made that have a major impact on local residents, there will always be protests. “You also saw this with the expansion of the Betuwe Route in the Achterhoek and when the fifth runway at Schiphol was constructed, many people were angry about the increase in noise and exhaust fumes.”

Load Date: April 19, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")