Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Letters
The Telegraph
February 3, 2022 Thursday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: WHAT YOU SAY; Page 16
Length: 1144 words
Body


Remarkable
Amsterdam will celebrate its 750th anniversary in 2025. Prominent PvdA Lennart Booij was hired to organize this. He receives 10,000 euros per month for 20 hours of work per week. Booij was Halsema's advisor at the time when she applied for the mayor's office. Remarkable detail: Halsema did not think a public tender was necessary for this job. She thought Booij was the suitable candidate and offered him his generous salary. How is Femke Halsema going to justify this?
 J. Kluin
Party
It is always a party with Mayor Halsema of Amsterdam. Favoritism, self-interest and wasting money. There is always a new scandal. No, then Mayor Sharon Dijksma of Utrecht, also from a red background, so it is possible.
 Eric Kippersluis, Akersloot
Specialists
The Netherlands is prepared to send specialists to counter Russian cyber attacks. So these are IT toppers, the very best. Can't they also go to the Tax Authorities for a while to convert the up button into a down button? And then there are a few government services where urgent action needs to be taken in the field of ICT information.
 W.M. Rattink, Mildam
VAT reduction
Rutte should poke a hole in his already busy agenda to ask his Belgian colleagues how they do that. There, the VAT on electricity will be reduced from 21% to 6%. Apparently they are a lot further along in IT technology in Belgium than here?
 Jan van de Wetering,
 Nistelrode
After whistling
You regularly see men on the street putting down their briefcases to whistle and hiss at women. The other day someone walked out of the bank, loosening his tie to compliment a girl on her butt... GroenLinks report, surely?
 Peter v/d Laarse,
 Badhoevedorp
Natural gas
Climate Minister Rob Jetten, together with colleagues from Austria, Denmark and Sweden, is making one last attempt to prevent Brussels from giving natural gas a 'green' stamp. It will and must happen, and everything will be done to declare gas a prohibited fuel. But the gentlemen have not yet thought about how to close the resulting gap. Good solutions are not yet available and citizens will have to see how it is solved, but they can bear the consequences. In short, we can all sit out in the cold or pay exorbitant amounts of money to warm the house.
 Frank Marinus, Venlo
environmental code
Companies lose track in 'simple' digital counter (Tel. 2/2). Thousands of laws and regulations have been added in the last 25 years, but not one has been abolished. Not only companies but the entire society, including the government, has been missing the point for some time now. It is high time that the government gives priority to simplifying society. Large companies with their own legal department actually benefit from complicated laws and regulations from a competitive perspective.
 Duco Douwstra,
 Vleuten
Staff
Netherlands aid to Ukraine. 10 helmets; rejected, 15 shard vests; 10 operational, 5 reserve, 2 mine detectors, without batteries. I'm afraid it won't be much more.
 Hans Hondema
Illegal
The Afghan who pushed his wife off a metro platform appears to be in our country illegally. The probation service still had to issue a report on the road to successful reintegration into our society, which meant that the process was in danger of being postponed. Is it inexplicable that such a cost-consuming process is made illegal for an unhinged man while he is extradited to France after serving his sentence? Who will make short work of this now?
 R. Mondelaers,
 Bunschoten-Spakenburg
Fire letter
Northern hospitals write a letter to The Hague and beg not to close the pediatric cardiac surgery department in the UMCG. It is distressing that a Minister of Health, who comes from healthcare himself, does not see this. Let's hope that Kuipers realizes that the pediatric cardiac surgery department should remain in the UMCG.
 Kor Bonthuis, Appingedam
Israel
Amnesty International accuses Israel of being an apartheid state. I would like to point out to this organization that Israel is the only democracy in the entire Middle East. There is therefore still considerably more to be done in the field of human rights in all surrounding countries.
 Mart de Lange, Uden
Quirky feat
What a fantastic achievement Boskalis and KNRM have done with the adrift Julietta D. Went to sea during a storm to rescue a cargo ship and protect our coast from dire consequences. These kinds of actions suddenly make me feel very proud to be Dutch again. Huge tribute.
 Patricia Jansen
Youth Services
It is terrible that people are calling on TV to sign a petition because 1,800 innocent children are being locked up in our country. Are there no more representatives?
 Simon Luxen, Lisse
Safety
What if there were no men. Then I would dare to walk quietly on the street late at night and I would only go into a parking garage on late evening. It's in a woman's system to always be alert. On the street, always having your antennae on with health care providers, it feels good or not. Where do those hands go? The worst part is that we almost think it's normal. Fortunately, there are still plenty of men with whom you feel safe, because life would be boring without them.
 Mireille Wildschut -
 Hageman
Hands
LTO Netherlands believes that we should bring in labor migrants from outside the EU. But they do not tell us where these people should live. I have a question for LTO. Is the economy there for the people or are the people there for the economy? Perhaps it is time to move some of the economy to countries where the necessary hands are widely available.
 Ron Kivit, Bleiswijk
Vattenfall
According to the CEO of Vattenfall, the Netherlands is transitioning too slowly to cleaner energy and we have too little sense of crisis. Well, when I look at the rest of the world, our sense of crisis is not that bad and we are certainly not out of step. We are even going to spend 25 billion on extremely dubious climate measures in the coming years. Perhaps we do not lack urgency, but confidence in the outcome of the ever-changing measures that also cost a lot of money.
 Jan Pronk, Beverwijk
Teacher
A reader states that more people will retrain as teachers if the salary increases (WUZ, 2/1). It is assumed that everyone is suitable for that profession. But you really have to have a 'feeling' for it, otherwise you will end up in a burnout. But it is and remains a wonderful profession and I hope that many people will follow the training with the right intentions.
 M. van Beers
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 2, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")