Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Compost pile thwarts migrant hotel
de Volkskrant
January 18, 2024 Thursday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 3
Length: 945 words
Byline: PETER DE GRAAF
Highlight: In Asten-Heusden a farmer has placed a compost heap at the edge of his field. Due to possible odor nuisance, a housing project for 94 migrants next door is being canceled. 'Soon everyone will be putting down compost heaps.'
Body


Odor nuisance report
"Yes, it is really just a very small compost heap," says José Mennen in the outskirts of the church village of Heusden in the Brabant municipality of Asten. She points from the public road to a mound with ditch clippings and potato foliage on the border of the farmer's field. "It's a lot of nothing," her husband Wim agrees. 'It's really strange what a lump of potting soil can do. Quite bizarre actually.'

José Mennen (56) is chairman of the neighborhood association De Hoekse Waard, to which approximately 35 families are affiliated in this horticultural area east of Eindhoven. Many migrant workers also live on the gardeners' plots - in the high season their number is estimated at 225. "We actually think that's enough," says Mennen.

That is why last year 28 local residents objected to a plan to build a hotel for up to 94 migrant workers on the site of a former pig farm, where two stables have been demolished. What the residents were unable to achieve with their 'views' at the municipality, a compost heap of barely a few cubic meters succeeded: the accommodation building is not allowed to be built due to possible odor nuisance.
Odor-sensitive object
"You look within the law for ways to stop it," says Jos Leenders, the farmer responsible for the compost heap on the border of his field. Protection against odor nuisance is regulated by the so-called Activities Decree, which is in turn based on the Environmental Management Act. It prescribes that there must be at least 50 meters between an activity that could cause odor nuisance and 'an odor-sensitive object'.

The distance between the compost heap and the proposed migrant hotel on the neighboring plot is 19 meters. Leenders, who has a mixed farm with pigs and potatoes, does not want to say much by telephone about his 'farmer-smart' action. He not only submitted an opinion, but also reported the compost heap at the end of July. No permit is required for a compost heap - a notification under the Activities Decree is sufficient.

Leenders served on the Asten municipal council for sixteen years on behalf of the CDA and knows how things are going. He claims that his main objection to the migrant hotel is of a humane nature: you don't house people so close to a pigsty. "It made me sleep badly," said Leenders, who is also on the board of the water board. 'Then you use every means to stop something like that.'

He was deeply disappointed when the city council decided six months ago to issue 'a draft declaration of no reservations' for the construction of a temporary housing facility for 94 migrant workers. His CDA had made a remarkable political turn, out of fear of claims for damages.

By creating a simple compost heap, he managed to completely change the playing field. To such an extent that this month the council advised the municipal council to refuse the 'definitive declaration of no reservations'. The main reason: 'the distance requirement of 50 meters between the location of the compost heap and the location of the requested housing facility' is not met. The second, but subordinate reason: the way in which the mandatory 'environmental dialogue' has been conducted is considered insufficient.

The city council must make a decision later this month. A committee meeting last week showed that most factions are resigned to this development. "We are really bummed about it, but legally we have no other option," says councilor Janine Spoor at the town hall. 'We thought it was an excellent location for temporary housing for migrant workers. But then suddenly a message came and everything changed. I was also surprised that this was possible. I don't think it was the legislator's intention to stop a housing facility with a compost heap.'

Various factions asked the councilor last week to investigate whether this does not set a precedent. "Is it now arranged in the Netherlands that a farmer or entrepreneur can stop things by placing a compost heap somewhere?", said councilor Sandu Niessen. Colleagues also said they were concerned about similar 'goat-tracking' and 'legal games' in future projects.
New environmental law
Councilor Spoor has pinned her hopes on the new environmental law, which has been in force since the beginning of this year and contains all kinds of rules for what can be seen, heard or smelled outside. "The new environmental law may offer a way out and an opportunity to continue the process," says the Astense director. The municipality is still studying this. She is not afraid of a claim for damages from the applicant: according to the councilor, the municipality has simply adhered to the applicable environmental regulations.

The local residents in the rural area are happy with the end result, even though it was achieved in an unusual way. 'It really was farmer Jos's smartness', Wim Mennen underlines. 'Jos said to me the other day, laughing: Wim, if you mow your ditch, just dump the clippings on my compost heap.'

It is seen as a clever trick in Asten-Heusden. Much cheaper than buying up a building, as entrepreneurs in Twello last year and villa residents in Den Helder and Vught previously did to prevent housing for asylum seekers. Chairman José Mennen of the De Hoekse Waard neighborhood association does not rule out that the Heusdense trick will be followed: 'Soon everyone will be building compost heaps to stop certain construction projects.'
Jos said to me recently, laughing: Wim, if you mow your ditch, just dump the clippings on my pile.

View the original page: page 3

Graphic

 
The compost heap in Asten-Heusden on the field of farmer Jos Leenders. 'It's a lump of nothing.'

Load Date: January 17, 2024


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")