Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Corona, gas extraction, inflation: whatever the reason, demonstrators in the Zuiderpark are angry with the government
De Volkskrant.nl
March 12, 2023 Sunday 02:01 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 670 words
Byline: Fleur Damen
Body


 Thousands of demonstrators in The Hague on Saturday afternoon expressed their dissatisfaction with the cabinet on a wide range of matters, from the nitrogen rules to the Environmental Act. Wilders and Baudet were present, hoping to make an electoral contribution.
Shaking his head, car mechanic Mike (36) watches on Saturday afternoon as PVV leader Geert Wilders on stage in The Hague's Zuiderpark rails against asylum seekers in a characteristic manner. “He's missing the point there,” says the Eindhoven resident, a can of beer in his hand. “This doesn't help me.”
The demonstration was an initiative of the radical farmers' organization Farmers Defense Force (FDF), with Samen voor Nederland, but it was not a farmers' protest: all groups that felt left out in the cold by the cabinet were called on to come to The Hague.
environmental code
This was complied with. In the park in The Hague there is a colorful coalition of benefit parents, victims of Groningen gas extraction, social minimums, corona skeptics, nitrogen deniers and scattered farmers.
The symbol they share is the inverted flag, their shared goal of blocking the coalition's majority in the Senate. But that's where the unanimity ends. The grievances range from the European Union and NATO to alleged election fraud, and from the war in Ukraine – for and against – to the Environmental Act (a law that brings together dozens of rules for spatial development, .).
“For me it is not about a specific sector or specific themes,” Forum for Democracy leader Thierry Baudet summarizes the meeting from the stage. “We are all targets!”
Baudet is also taking the opportunity to campaign for the Provincial Council elections on Wednesday. His party is the most visible: supporters hand out flyers and balloons, campaign posters hang on the lampposts towards the park.
Long Covid
The major absentee is BBB leader Caroline van der Plas, who dropped out due to threats. The SGP and JA21 also failed to attend, to the regret of Eindhove resident Mike, who wants to vote for 'an underdog' on Wednesday, but does not yet know which one.
Mike – also a volunteer firefighter and therefore reluctant to have his last name published in the newspaper – was never a voter until trouble came knocking at the door. His girlfriend, an employee in outpatient care, has been at home with long Covid complaints for a year.
“First people applauded her, and now she has to give up a third of her salary while the bills rise,” he says, while his walking shoes bounce nervously up and down on the swampy lawn. "There is no safety net." They gave up the desire to have a second child. “Too expensive,” he explains calmly, almost resignedly.
Fries mayo
The speakers on stage are anything but. A woman with an Ongehoord Nederland cap excitedly depicts the grandparents of public figures as NSB members. A little further on, two demonstrators are waving a prince's flag, an NSB symbol.
But the relentless stream of verbal frenzy on stage doesn't translate to the field. There, annoyed lyrics go hand in hand with an upbeat mood. The demonstrators happily sing along to the techno blaring from the speakers, a mayo in their hands.
Tractors
Those present obeyed the instructions of the organization, which asked the demonstrators – their 'warriors' – to behave. Because 'the party cartel', the 'incumbent power', wants things to go wrong, is the reasoning, so that the media reports about it and deters voters. And so farmers park their tractors outside the city.
The shovel that breaks through a police barrier shortly after the start turns out to be the only incident. Two officers are slightly injured when they arrest the reluctant driver. Just after four, a reggae singer closes the program. “Love and light!” he shouts, after an afternoon full of resentment. “I am grateful!” The field is already largely empty.

Load Date: March 15, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")