Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The big cities are going to change drastically: fewer cars, more high-rise buildings and radical greening
De Volkskrant.nl
March 26, 2021 Friday 07:25 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1830 words
Byline: Mac van Dinther
Body


  All major cities in the Netherlands are busy making their plans for the future. Amsterdam and Utrecht took the lead. What will change in the city? 'A new museum should no longer be located on Museumplein, but in Zuidoost or Nieuw-West.'
Far fewer cars, more high-rise buildings, radical greening: the major cities of the Netherlands will drastically change their appearance over the next 25 years. City residents are in for nothing less than a revolution, says urban planner Wouter Veldhuis, member of the Board of Government Advisors that advises the government on spatial developments.
In the run-up to the new Environmental Act, which will come into effect next year, all major cities are busy making their future plans. Amsterdam and Utrecht recently opened the ball with their vision of what the city should look like in twenty to thirty years.
The plans differ in parts, but the direction is the same. Amsterdam wants to grow into a 'human metropolis', a vital, liveable and green city. Utrecht profiles itself as a '10-minute city' where everything people need is within reach.
These are prospects that will be put into practice in the coming years. One thing is clear: anyone who lives or visits the city cannot count on being able to park their car on the street in the future. And even the cyclist has to watch his step: 'The bicycle is starting to become the new car.'
1. Up high
There will be a lot of construction in the coming years. Amsterdam wants to build 150 thousand homes by 2050, Utrecht 60 thousand by 2040. As far as the cities are concerned, these new homes will be within the current city limits. 'Densification' is the key word: more people closer together. That also means going up.
In Amsterdam there is room for high-rise buildings up to 70 meters along railways and the IJ. At major stations such as Amstel, Zuid and Sloterdijk it can be even higher. In the city center of Utrecht, the Dom Tower (112.5 meters) is the limit, says D66 councilor Klaas Verschuure of Spatial Development. 'It is sacred.' Further from the center, in Leidsche Rijn, there will be a tower of 140 meters high.
“The time for building in the meadows is over,” emphasizes Amsterdam councilor Marieke van Doorninck (GroenLinks). The city must be careful with what greenery remains. For the climate of course, ecology and biodiversity. But also for Amsterdam residents to go outside. 'Living in the city is efficient and sustainable, because it allows you to provide facilities for large groups of people at the same time. You don't need the car for that and it also takes up less space.'
Utrecht chooses to build around new urban nodes. Expansion outside the city is at the bottom of the wish list, says Verschuure. Inner-city construction is complicated, he agrees. 'But let's not pretend that things happen much faster outside the city. Before you can start working there, it will take ten to fifteen years.'
Van Doorninck agrees: 'Building in the meadows is attractive and cheap for project developers, but it is expensive for society. Because who will build roads and provide facilities in those new residential areas?'
This is the final farewell to the vinex, the construction of expansion districts around the city that was initiated last century, says urban planner Veldhuis. 'There is still the idea in politics that we should build more single-family homes. But the Netherlands has more than enough of those. If you look thirty years ahead, you see that there is a great need for urban living environments for single households, seniors and young professionals.'
The last Vinex districts are still being completed, Veldhuis emphasizes. 'That shows how long it takes for changes in the field of spatial planning to take place. If you rely on the current housing shortage, you will soon be too late to make adjustments.' He thinks densification is a logical choice, but adds a warning. 'The Achilles heel of high-rise buildings is what they look like at street level. You must avoid looking at parking garages and storage areas on the ground floor.'
2. Get out of the car, continue on foot
The car is increasingly disappearing from the street scene. Amsterdam is eliminating ten thousand parking spaces until 2025. Busy motorways are being transformed into cycle streets where cars are guests. In the city, 30 kilometers per hour for cars will become the norm.
In Utrecht, the number of applications for parking permits is already decreasing, says Verschuure. Where the car disappears, space becomes available for something else. Parking spaces can be converted into bicycle sheds, playgrounds or community gardens. From now on, residents will park their cars in a nearby parking garage, visitors from outside will park in a 'hub' on the edge of the city and then continue by bicycle or public transport.
That is a huge change, says Van Doorninck. "But the car really has far too great an influence on the city." Not only because of the space that all that tin takes up ("Cars are on the street 95 percent of the time"), also because of the unsafety that cars cause for cyclists and pedestrians. Removing the car may be a sacrifice for many, according to the Amsterdam councilor. “What you get in return is a pleasant living environment.”
In Utrecht, a car-free neighborhood is already being built, in the Merwedekanaal zone. That is the future, says Verschuure. City residents who really want a car will now have to walk or cycle a bit to get to their car. But they prefer to use the bicycle, public transport or shared cars that are becoming available everywhere. Utrecht is building a ring of public transport hubs around the city where you can switch to other means of transport.
It sounds like a logical choice. Yet it is a 'revolution', says Veldhuis. 'For the first time, cities are choosing walking and cycling as the dominant form of transport. The business community has always done everything it can to maximize car accessibility. Both cities now say: that is over.'
Looking further, the urban planner already sees a new conflict emerging: 'A battle arises between pedestrians and cyclists in busy places in the city. What used to be a busy car street has now become a scary bicycle street.'
Cyclists will also have to deal with the new reality that they have to park their two-wheeler centrally and have to continue on foot, says Van Doorninck. 'People have to learn that they can no longer park their bicycle everywhere they need to be.' Whether that will work is the question, says Veldhuis: 'I think it is easier to get people out of the car than to ask a cyclist to do so. pedestrian.'
3. More city centers
Amsterdam and Utrecht both have a beautiful historic city center. But if you pile all the facilities in the center, it will become overcrowded, Van Doorninck warns. “The city center is becoming overloaded, the balance is gone.”
Amsterdam therefore wants to build three new city centers in Nieuw-West, Zuidoost and Noord. Osdorpplein, Amsterdamse Poort and Buikslotermeerplein must become new city centers, each with their own character. This also includes metropolitan facilities, Van Doorninck emphasizes. 'A new museum should no longer be located on Museumplein, but in Zuidoost or Nieuw-West.'
The old city center, with the Dom as its center, remains the heart of Utrecht, Verschuure assures. But new city centers are being developed around it in Leidsche Rijn, Papendorp, Westraven, Lunetten-Koningsweg, Overvecht and Science Park. These must become a mix of living, working, greenery and facilities. 'I don't want to say that there should be a theater or a large cinema everywhere, but there will be sufficient facilities for the thousands of people who will live there.'
That is a striking change of course, says Veldhuis. 'Until now, cities had a policy of expanding their inner city.' As a result, wealthy city center residents took up more and more space and poorer residents were pushed to the outskirts. 'I see the new centers mainly as a way to give weaker neighborhoods a new impetus and to ensure that life is also worth living for the residents who already live there.'
According to him, the construction of new city centers is also a logical consequence of the call for more urban living environments. 'Because the historic city centers are limited in space, it is necessary to create new places.'
In addition to developing new city centers, Amsterdam also wants to make the city center attractive again for 'ordinary' people, says Van Doorninck. 'It is now very much aimed at tourists. The baker and the butcher must return to the street. There must be support for that. We can ensure this by repurposing space that becomes vacant for housing instead of something else.'
4. Anarchist green
By taking the car out of the city, there will be room for greenery. These are not large contiguous areas, warns urban planner Veldhuis. 'That is mainly green.' It is impossible for municipalities to manage all those places and it is far too expensive.
That is ideally something to leave to residents, says Veldhuis. 'Radically greening a city is only feasible if you dare to entrust management to residents. But then as a municipality you have to say goodbye to the idea that everything has to look like a raked park. You have to dare to unleash some anarchy. This requires a cultural change within the municipal apparatus.'
According to Verschuure, a lot has changed in that regard in recent years. 'Removing a paving stone and putting in a plant: ten years ago we still had a hard time about that. Now we are encouraging that.' Utrecht is investing a total of 1.6 billion in more greenery.
It must be prevented that a few local residents live out their green dream and the rest suffer from it, says Van Doorninck. But the freedom is there in principle. 'Maybe it will look slightly different than we had imagined. But we now also know that biodiversity benefits more from messy greenery than from a neat park. As a city you have to deal with this in a relaxed manner.'
Financing all these great ambitions is still a challenge, Veldhuis warns. By eliminating parking spaces, cities lose an important source of income, while greening actually results in additional costs. “That works both ways.”
Money is a thing, agrees Utrecht councilor Verschuure. 'We have calculated that if we do everything we plan to do, we will need 7.1 billion euros. We cannot do that alone. We desperately need a contribution from the government for this.' Amsterdam has not provided a cost estimate, says Van Doorninck. 'But I wholeheartedly support that call. The government has asked cities to help solve the housing challenge. We are happy to do that. But it does take something.'
 <LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>488431f-1616744222.json</LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>

Load Date: March 26, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")