Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Times are not forgiving
de Volkskrant
July 11, 2015 Saturday


Copyright 2015 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First
Length: 2058 words
Byline: BY REMCO MEIJER AND RAOUL DU PRÉ
Body


Together with Mark Rutte, Diederik Samsom turned the country upside down. Rutte survived, Samsom paid the price in three elections. But his morale is unbroken. 'From the European rearguard to the vanguard. Then we have done something right.'
'I never said it was going to be easy. I literally said it in the campaign: I'm not going to make any promises. Because this coalition country simply requires compromises. And because the economy didn't allow it. All those other party leaders took part in the competition: how many jobs will you create? I said: guys, unemployment is only going to increase for the time being. I predicted that times would be tough.'

It is now three summers ago that Diederik Samsom (1971) started his miraculous rise. He pulled the PvdA out of the swamp by the hair. He was thought to have no chance, but Samsom almost reached the Tower. Now, almost three years later, he is on a seemingly endless journey through the desert. A journey in which his party has become increasingly lonely. Three elections in a row were lost. Hundreds of council and state members lost their jobs. In the Senate, the PvdA was marginalized to the sixth party in the country.

Outwardly unperturbed, Samsom continues, walking faithfully next to Mark Rutte's VVD and proudly waving the almost implemented coalition agreement: look how far we have come! But when he looks back, there are almost no voters who still follow him. “I admit,” he says, “times are not forgiving. And the task is getting bigger and bigger. It is hard work. But it belongs to the PvdA. Realizing our ideals in this reality is difficult.'

He sometimes talks about it with Wim Kok, for the time being the last prime minister who was allowed to provide the PvdA. Moreover, the PvdA leader who had to deal with mainly election defeats for years, until he finally won for once in 1998.

"Just sparring," Samsom says about those meetings. 'Exchange experiences. I can learn a lot from Wim. He knows better than anyone how unruly it can be. He also saw our party crumble. At that time, only one reform was needed. It had three letters: WAO. We'll do a few more. But Kok also had to explain to his supporters that this beautiful disability scheme was untenable. That WAO that we loved so much, which also included people who were not disabled but simply redundant in companies. Parked away. Literal. We cherished that. There was something to it. But it was untenable. And Kok was the first to see it and do something about it.'

Indeed, it cannot be Samsom's own election promises that he is now fighting against. Friend and enemy alike remember how he campaigned with 'the honest story', without mountains of gold.

But what is he fighting against? 'The uncertainty', he thinks. Or rather: the false illusion of the certainties of our time that - just like the WAO at the time - have proven to be untenable.

'This government, especially in healthcare, is reforming a system that we all cherished. A system that could only run because costs increased by 6 percent per year. A system that we could only afford because the economy was also growing by 2 to 3 percent per year. We were satisfied, but everyone felt that it was unsustainable. We have now intervened and thus caused a lot of uncertainty.'
Insecurity? The commotion has broken out among your voters.
'Uncertainty sometimes translates into electoral setbacks. But listen: we should have done this a long time ago. Everyone saw it. I also tell people when I speak in front of an audience: a nursing home place costs 80,000 euros per year. That's 80 thousand beautiful euros. And I am proud that we are a country where that is possible. But that is not self-evident. Because those 80 thousand euros are paid by you. And through you, and you, and you. While you have never seen those 80 thousand euros together.

'It is expensive tax money that we have to spend well. We no longer did that in healthcare. We had large institutions, placed at a distance. Bureaucracy with which we created a false sense of security. People could think: yes, I still have it today. But what about their children?'
But how do you stop the uncertainty that has arisen?
'I can not do that. Politics cannot do that. It now has to happen from the bottom up. With the district nurses. Only they have the authority to tell the people. To bring new certainty.'

In the spring, Samsom spent his Fridays as an 'intern' at home care in Spijkenisse. There he saw what he hoped for, he says. 'We were with a gentleman who had had a tia. And he was a diabetic. Because of that tia he could no longer squirt properly. The question was: can extra help be provided for this? But this nurse said: sir, come, I am going to teach you in the next month. And then you do it yourself.

'So I couldn't have said something like that. Then he would have become angry: shame on you, you just want to make cuts! But he accepted it from her.'
In the meantime, you are more or less done with the coalition agreement. Are you a satisfied man?
'Most of it can be set in motion. But almost everything still has to land properly. We have opened the entrance gates, now the grounds need to be worked.'
This year we mainly saw sand entering the machine. In fact, VVD and PvdA have not agreed on anything in recent times. It either became a crisis, with the healthcare law and the bed, bath and bread issue. Or nothing came of it, as is now the case with the tax reform.
'I have a different observation. It was a crucial year. We have brought major bills to the finish line. The reform of long-term care, the environmental law, the changes in the unemployment benefit and dismissal law, the approach to bogus constructions in the labor market. And then we also arranged the new tax system, the completed assignment.'
Those tax plans are not nearly as ambitious as you wanted.
'That is not the fault of PvdA and VVD. Our ambition has foundered due to the unwillingness of some opposition parties.'
This masks the fact that VVD and PvdA have only mutually agreed on a fairly basic tax reduction.
'No, we agreed on the whole package. Very ambitious, including the shift from labor to consumption, via the VAT increase. And therefore many more jobs. But we couldn't reach an agreement with the opposition.'
The end result is a package that the VVD can explain much better than you can. A tax reduction of 5 billion. Extra money for Defense. The VVD supporters understand that. Well done, Halbe Zijlstra.
'Interesting analysis, but of course not true. The tax reduction is explicitly aimed at work. A wage cost subsidy for additional jobs for low incomes. The increase in the earned income tax credit also creates work at the bottom of the labor market. That amounts to 3.5 billion of those 5 billion. We have also reduced rates in the second and third brackets, which helps middle-income earners. Because we think that is important too. And then money goes to healthcare and social security.'
However, the VVD is doing a better job of leaving a visible mark on government policy. You are left behind. Last year you formulated five objectives for the cabinet. Let's go through them. One: a tax reform that makes the country stronger, fairer and greener. So little comes of this.
'Stronger and fairer has succeeded. I would have preferred to do more about greening, but there was no support.'
Two: more tax on capital, less on labor: you wanted to tax wealth more heavily.
'We do. Savers now pay too much, investors too little. We'll straighten that out. Soon everyone will pay tax on the real return.'
Three: you wanted pension funds to invest more in the economy. There is now an agency - the Dutch Investment Institution - to promote that. We don't hear much about it.
'Yes. It recently raised its first 2 billion. That's no small beer, guys. That will be 4 billion and so on in the coming years: 2, 4, 8, 16 billion, as far as I'm concerned. That goes to loans for small and medium-sized businesses.'
Four: more manufacturing companies, less services. Our manufacturing industry is over, isn't it?
'Our manufacturing industry is the fastest growing branch of the economy! It is doing the best in all of Europe. Those SME loans from the pension funds go there. The new Offshore Wind Energy Act attracts 10 to 15 billion in investments. All manufacturing companies! Companies that weld foundations for those mills, companies that place them in the seabed, companies that make the turbines.'
Five: a Dutch pioneering role in sustainability and new energy. The opposite happens. We're behind. And then a judge comes along and says that the government must adhere to international agreements, and the government responds by considering whether to appeal first. What do you mean, pioneering role?
'We were far behind the European objectives. And we are still there. But in 2014, for the first time, a kink was visible in that scandalous graph that showed that the share of sustainable energy remained the same. Finally, in one year, we had an increase of almost 20 percent. If we keep that up for 10 years, we'll have come a long way.'
Then the cabinet doesn't have to appeal, does it? Then a coalition, co-led by a man with your background, must say: thank you judge, this is how we are going to do it?
'Yes, I think. The point is that in addition to a substantive side, there is also a legal side to this statement. What would we think if a judge said that benefits should be reduced? Or up? So the cabinet must take a serious look at this.'
Your voters certainly don't expect that from you, to object to something like this.
'It is evident that we share the ambition of this judge. And even want to go further. Offshore wind energy has already been achieved. This will soon also apply to electric driving. Just wait and see. In 30 years we will say to each other: did you used to drive through the city in a car with an exhaust? Disgusting! As we now look back on the Middle Ages when people pooped in the street...

'The Netherlands is of course the country where electric driving should make a breakthrough. Small distances, and if you stick a nail in the ground here, you already have an electricity cable. So that judge's ruling is interesting for lawyers. But people who are concerned about the climate know that the real task is much greater. And I see a good start in the Netherlands.'
If you've gotten your way in so many ways, why don't voters see it?
'I already said it: we cause a lot of uncertainty.'
If we were you, we would find it bitter: if you tell the honest story, you will be punished.
'If I found that unpleasant, I would have no characterological interest in this party. The PvdA fights for people who are having a hard time. We make it difficult for ourselves so that other people can have it a little easier.'
Then it would be nice if they also voted for you.
'We'll see about that when this country gets out of the valley. I see the beginning. The economy is really in a lot better shape than three years ago. International circumstances play a role. But from the European rearguard to the vanguard, that also has to do with a few things that we have done very well.'
Have you ever allowed the thought that you, with your image as the man who works so loyally with the VVD, are standing in the way of the PvdA's recovery?
'No. I am not concerned with my profile but with our work. I hope that this will benefit our recovery.'

A party committee recently announced the profile for the next PvdA party leader. They must have extensive national and international experience.

'Yes. Haha. I'm going to Brussels for a day tomorrow. Consultation on Greece.'
What does Wim Kok actually say when you spar with him? Keep up the good work, Diederik?
'Well, oh well, the word tasty doesn't really suit Wim Kok. But then, after many defeats, he won elections again in 1998. He sees parallels.'
I'm not working on my profile. I'm busy with our work

View the original page: page 16, page 17

Graphic

 
PvdA leader Diederik Samsom: 'We make it difficult for ourselves, so that other people have it a little easier.'
Photo Ivo van der Bent

Load Date: July 10, 2015


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")