Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Hague: no protest at Huis ten Bosch palace, farmers must go to Koekamp; Protesters set to meet King Willem-Alexander
De Telegraaf.nl
November 16, 2020 Monday 2:07 PM GMT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 443 words
Dateline: THE HAGUE
Body


The municipality of The Hague is putting an end to an announced farmers' protest at Huis ten Bosch palace. Farmers Defense Force wanted to meet King Willem-Alexander there, but the farmers are sent to the Koekamp near the central station.
People who come to The Hague by car or tractor can park on the Benoordenhoutseweg, not far from the Malieveld. Large vehicles are never allowed in the city center, because that is dangerous for shoppers, according to the municipality of The Hague.
The farmers want to present a petition to King Willem-Alexander. A small delegation may go to the King's Cabinet, at the Hofvijver.
Expect crowds on the road
Road users should take into account possible delays in and around The Hague on Tuesday. The ANWB issues this warning.
According to the ANWB and Rijkswaterstaat, it is currently still unclear what the farmers' protest will mean for traffic congestion. The action group has not yet announced exactly how many farmers are participating in the protest, whether they come with a tractor, which route they take and whether they use the highway. “Whether or not there will be traffic congestion all depends on that. There are a lot of ifs and buts,” says the ANWB. Rijkswaterstaat is also alert to information about the plans of the farmers, who will probably drive to The Hague from Monday evening.
FDF leader Mark van den Oever told Omroep Brabant on Monday morning that in addition to four hundred activists with tractors, there are also a hundred Brabant farmers without a tractor. “I hope for 2,000 activists nationally,” said Van den Oever. Some farmers would also leave Brabant on Monday evening around 9 p.m. and not take the highway.
environmental code
The farmers wanted to arrive at the house of King Willem-Alexander at 9 a.m. on Tuesday morning, so that they could personally hand him a letter against the upcoming Environmental Act. The municipality of The Hague prohibits this and has designated the Koekamp as a protest location. With the action, called Code Orange, the farmers want to prevent the House of Representatives from agreeing to the cabinet's nitrogen plans. Agriculture Minister Carola Schouten wants the House of Representatives to discuss the law before the Christmas holidays, but farmers have major objections.
The farmers also want to drive to the Central Bureau for Food Trade CBL in Leidschendam on Tuesday, where another event will take place in the afternoon. During the day of action, corona measures apply such as wearing face masks and keeping sufficient distance.
Do you have any tips or images? App to our WhatsApp tip line. Put our number in your phone: +31 613650952

Graphic

 
Image, Farmers' protests are expected again on Tuesday. Farmers Defense Force wants to meet the king., Hollandse Hoogte / Anjo de Haan

Load Date: November 17, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")