Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Big bill for construction fees: same piece of paper, six times as expensive; Eigen Huis wants minister intervention
De Telegraaf.nl
August 26, 2022 Friday 3:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; MONEY; DFT; DFT/NEWS; FRONTPAGE; INTERIOR
Length: 680 words
Byline: Martijn Klerks and Marlou Visser
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


The Netherlands has to build a hundred thousand houses every year, but anyone who actually wants to do that will spend more than a hundred euros more on a permit in the average municipality than a year ago. The average request for a dormer window or other renovation is more expensive than 400 euros for the first time.
The North Holland Wormerland takes the cake with a more than doubling in both cases: in that municipality on the A7, where many people come to see who want to escape the hustle and bustle of Amsterdam, new builders have lost more than 12,000 euros before the first stone has been laid. , according to figures released today by the Eigen Huis Association. Terschelling and Zeist also charge top prices, but building permits were already expensive there.
The Home Owners Association wants Housing Minister De Jonge to make agreements with municipalities to control price increases. A building permit is on average 10% more expensive this year than in 2021.
Eigen Huis, together with IGG Bouweconomie, looked at the price of a permit for a minor renovation of 10,000 euros excluding VAT, for example for a dormer window, and for a new-build home of 170,000 euros excluding building land and VAT.
Huge price differences
For the first time, a permit for minor renovations costs an average of more than 400 euros. But the differences are big: where a resident of The Hague only has to pay 121 euros, a builder in Veenendaal pays 992.33 euros - almost ten times as much.
The price differences are also enormous for new-build homes. For the same building permit, new-build buyers in Wormerland, Terschelling and Zeist pay up to more than 12,000 euros, six times as much as buyers in Weert, The Hague and Waddinxveen, who only pay around 2,000 euros.
Wormerland and Putten
In the municipality of Wormerland, the fees have even more than doubled. A correction, a spokesperson explains. “In order to cover the budget for 2022, it was necessary that, among other things, the rates for construction fees were made cost-effective. We did not charge enough for this for years and were therefore unable to achieve it financially.”
And the North Holland municipality still contributes money, according to the spokesperson. For 2022, 87% of the costs are covered.
In Putten the increase is more than 50%. And that is because the Gelderland municipality cannot find officials to process all applications.
“We are a small municipality, people are being moved away from here,” says a spokesperson for responsible councilor Ewoud 't Jong. “And so we not only asked retirees to come back, but also had to hire interim workers to clear the large backlog of work. These are expensive, and our starting point is that the price for the permit must be cost-effective.”
Point of concern
The result: anyone who wants to build a house in Putten now pays almost 5,000 euros for the permit alone. Last year that piece of paper only cost a little more than 3,000 euros. “Those expensive fees are a point of concern,” says the councilor's spokesperson. “But the amount is up to the municipal council. They can determine that the price no longer has to cover costs.”
How is it possible that prices differ so much between municipalities? “A large municipality can work more efficiently than a small one, that plays a role. No profit is made on it. The price must cover costs, but each municipality makes its own calculation. One only includes the costs of the official, the other also those of his office and the reception.”
environmental code
The interest group is seriously concerned about next year. “If the new Environmental Act is introduced on January 1, 2023, private parties will test the quality of new homes during construction,” says Cindy Kremer, director of the Eigen Huis Association.
“The costs thereof, in addition to the municipality's fees, will be borne by the buyer. That is why we want binding agreements to be made quickly about how these costs can be calculated. If this does not happen, a new-build home will soon cost thousands of euros more due to the high costs of the new legislation, even before the first stone has been laid.”

Load Date: August 26, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")