Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=This will all be different. A selection of the plans; Falling healthcare costs
NRC.NEXT
September 17, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: know; Page 5
Length: 965 words
Body


Budget Day What has been announced? Too many to list here. But here's what you definitely need to know.
For the first time in history, collective expenditure on healthcare is declining. This will amount to 71.3 billion euros next year. Compared to last year's budget, 1.4 billion will be saved in one fell swoop with the reforms in long-term care.
Next year, adults will spend an average of 5,075 euros on care, 15 euros less than last year. The deductible will increase from 360 euros per year to 375 euros per year. The health insurance pays for all medical costs above that amount. The monthly premium for the basic policy in 2015 is expected to increase by 10 euros.
The government maintains cuts to the media. The national public broadcasters have to make concessions, the regional broadcasters receive less money and the philosophical and small religious broadcasters disappear. The Media Fund that subsidizes documentaries and children's television will stop in 2017.
To stimulate the film industry, an additional 20 million euros will be invested. The Dutch Film Fund will distribute the money. And in January 2015, a new Library Act will come into effect. This, among other things, guarantees that municipalities cannot simply close the library.
The 2015 Delta Program will be the largest project of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment in the coming years. Over thirty years, 20 billion euros will be invested in measures to protect the Netherlands against flooding and environmental changes. Nationally, the chance that someone will die as a result of flooding may not exceed one in 100,000 inhabitants per year (0.001 percent). Even higher standards will be introduced for extra vulnerable areas.
The new 'Environmental Act' will replace all legislation in the field of Spatial Planning. The Environmental Act was submitted to the House of Representatives in 2014, and the legislation must be implemented from next year. Legislation and regulations in the field of Spatial Planning will then become simpler, more flexible and less time-consuming.
The energy agreement concluded with the social partners must be further developed. By 2023, 16 percent of the energy in the Netherlands must come from sustainable sources. This requires international cooperation. The international 'climate summit' next year in Paris should lead to a global climate agreement.
Schiphol must be able to maintain or even expand its international position. That is why expansion of Lelystad airport will start next year. Schiphol may grow to 510,000 aircraft movements annually until 2020. Eindhoven Airport and Lelystad Airport will accommodate the remaining 70,000 movements. Work on the expansion of Lelystad Airport will start in 2015, so that the first commercial scheduled services can take place in 2018.
The public transport chip card and the cooperation between transport companies in concession areas must become more customer-friendly. If transport companies or concession providers fail to do so, the government will intervene. The Passenger Transport Act 2000 will be amended for this purpose.
There will be a special emergency fund for emergency aid and reception of refugees in the region. This is stated in the budget of Minister Ploumen (Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, PvdA). From 2014 to 2017, the fund has an amount of 570 million euros available for people in need in Iraq, Syria, South Sudan and the Central African Republic.
The current cuts to Defense will be limited, that has been known for months. Next year the armed forces will receive 50 million euros, 150 million in 2016 and after that it will structurally amount to 100 million euros. It is now clear how the extra money will be distributed. In the long term - little of the first 50 million will be possible - Defense will be able to purchase twenty Bushmaster armored vehicles, additional helicopters and 10 million worth of meager spare parts, and additional ammunition will be provided.
The budget for international missions, which this cabinet placed under the Minister of Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade last year, will be transferred to the Ministry of Defense. This concerns almost 300 million in 2015 and 250 million in 2016. (small) peace missions are paid from this pot.
Through the increase in the employment tax credit, half a billion euros will be earmarked for tax relief for middle and higher incomes. €475 million is allocated annually for a reduced tax increase in the first bracket.
Anyone who becomes unemployed is entitled to childcare allowance for six months - now it is three months.
There will be a study into the position of self-employed people on the labor market. That group is growing enormously, Rutte II wants to know: how many are 'false self-employed'? How do they fit into social services and insurance? How should the Tax Authorities deal with them?
The government will stop tax-free donations next year for buying a new house or paying off the mortgage.
Ministries must have at least 30 percent women in the highest management positions by 2017. In total, the government must become smaller. Vacant prisons and barracks are being sold.
The 2015 budget does not mention the most important education topic of next year, the introduction of the student loan system. This is scheduled for September 2015, so the financial consequences will have to wait a while.
The General Intelligence and Security Service receives 25 million more annually - that was already known. Reason: "The increased threats from jihadists and returnees from war zones, threats at the external border of Europe and cyber threats."
The government has made an additional €375 million available for 2014 and 2015 to accommodate the higher flow of asylum seekers. This was already known.

Graphic

 
photos david van dam

Load Date: September 16, 2014


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")