Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dura Vermeer wants urgent legislation to be able to build homes faster
De Volkskrant.nl
March 21, 2022 Monday 07:55 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 834 words
Byline: Robèrt Misset
Body


  Construction company Dura Vermeer is calling on the government to release money for the nitrogen problem sooner than 2023. "The construction sector cannot wait that long," warns Job Dura, chairman of the board of directors of the family business.
Despite a turnover of 1.6 billion euros in 2021 and a net profit of 52.4 million, Dura Vermeer states that the war in Ukraine and the sanctions against Russia make price increases inevitable. During the presentation of the annual figures at the head office, opposite Rotterdam The Hague Airport, financial director Lowick Barg noted that Dura Vermeer already has to pay the 'main price' for raw materials such as aluminium, steel, nickel, wood and copper. 'We want to focus on timber frame construction, but that is currently unaffordable. Starting new projects is difficult.'
With an order book for 2022 of 2.8 billion euros, Dura Vermeer is forced to look for alternative materials. Job Dura, chairman of the board of directors of the 167-year-old family business: 'Can you replace materials or mainly adjust the design of projects? It has become a puzzle.' Barg: 'The war in Ukraine also brings with it major economic uncertainties.' Dura: 'And what does it do to inflation and interest rates? This mainly affects the housing market.'
Dura Vermeer's Construction and Real Estate division grew from 810 million euros in 2020 to 946 million in 2021, with more homes (3,420) being delivered.
But growth is in danger of stagnating. Dura: 'A lack of affordable locations, slowing construction procedures and high construction prices put a brake on the speed at which we can build. It can lead to the postponement of projects, because we cannot agree on a price.'
'Huge bump'
In the Infrastructure division, turnover increased to 663 million euros in 2021. Dura calls the nitrogen problem 'a huge hurdle' in realizing its projects in infrastructure and housing construction. 'It's time for the government to solve it, eight out of ten new infrastructure projects have disappeared. Focus on renovation and replacement as quickly as possible, that would help us enormously.'
After the summer, the Council of State will make a ruling on the extension of the A15 from the Ressen junction to a connection with the A12 at Oudbroeken, where a consortium with Dura Vermeer won the tender at the end of 2019. The Council of State's reassessment should serve as a guideline for nitrogen rules for construction projects. Dura: 'New projects are currently not receiving permits and in many provinces housing construction is also being delayed. Our business climate is under pressure. It is absolutely unclear what is and is not possible.'
Livestock
Sufficient proposals have been made by the business community, the agricultural sector and LTO Netherlands to reduce nitrogen emissions and reduce livestock numbers, says Dura. 'Put policy on these initiatives, because they must also be legally stable. And not lead to a solution that will be rejected by the Council of State next year. It must also meet European standards.'
Now that the government will only make more money available for the nitrogen problem from next year, Dura Vermeer wants to focus more on replacing the existing infrastructure. CEO Dura refers to the inventory by the association of project developers (Neprom) of housing projects that can now be started. 'You can start that tomorrow. The pace must increase. If we don't do it now, everything will come to a standstill in 2025. We must quickly look for affordable land, because it takes an average of six to seven years to prepare urban locations for construction.'
The new environmental law will make the official wheels even slower, Dura fears. 'It's good to have a say, in the Netherlands you can object to the smallest things. It must remain realistic, a new building can be built in a city. Municipalities often impose additional conditions on sustainability, and it is a challenge for each municipality to meet the standards. That is why we have invested extra in work preparation and granting permits.'
'Major social problem'
Financial director Barg: 'We have to expand with people who are knocking on the door of the municipalities.' Dura: 'The core is that we have a major social problem, a shortage of affordable and accessible housing.' Barg: 'In addition, affordable housing is becoming smaller, we often build homes in the city center that do not fit families with children. The value of the land must be reduced.'
Dura advocates 'urgent legislation' to break the status quo in the housing market. Otherwise, the government's target of building 100,000 homes annually will be at risk. 'How much clout does Minister De Jonge have to translate the cabinet's ambition into higher production? If monthly costs rise due to higher interest rates and expensive energy, the affordable housing segment for the middle class will become even smaller.'

Load Date: March 22, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")