Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=A new law gives the cabinet the power to enforce housing development
NRC.nl
February 16, 2023 2:32 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 529 words
Byline: Eppo Konig
Highlight: Minister Hugo de Jonge wants more control over how much, where and for whom construction takes place. But he does not want to sit in 'the judge's chair'.
Body


The government wants to be able to enforce local housing plans from next year, in the interest of public housing. Any additional costs will be borne by the municipality involved. The Minister for Housing will then be given the authority to push through the construction of certain numbers of homes, or, for example, the price level, if municipalities are reluctant.
This is stated in the proposal for the new Public Housing Reinforcement Management Act, which was published on Thursday. Stakeholders can now respond to it.
The proposal involves an amendment to the new Environmental Act that must come into effect in 2024. Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning, CDA) does not rule out a delay, possibly until January 2025, he said on Thursday.
No guarantee
With the new rules, De Jonge wants more central control over public housing, and thus prevent this. A mandatory public housing program for municipalities, provinces and the national government should help to build. Two-thirds of this must be "affordable", a goal of the government.
The new law does not guarantee that those 900,000 homes will actually be built, the minister acknowledged. Construction production is now falling. “You will not solve that with this law,” said De Jonge. In any case, this law gives him more control over "how much and for whom and where" is built.
Also read the analysis Will Hugo de Jonge's six policy programs help solve the housing crisis?
From now on, the minister can make binding statements as to whether municipalities and housing associations have made sufficient efforts to build homes. He will also have more powers to intervene in protracted disputes about housing locations and plans between, for example, municipalities and provinces. An advisory committee must weigh in advance whether there is 'evident unwillingness' or, for example, powerlessness on the part of the authorities involved.
Just a meadow
De Jonge said that as a minister he does not want to sit in "the judge's seat". As an example, he mentioned disputes about building in nature on the edge of a municipality.
“Sometimes a pasture is just a pasture and we already had a few of those in the Netherlands. So yes, then we have to say: you will not only have to build in the inner city, but you will also occasionally have to build on the edge of the municipality in order to have sufficient locations and to meet the housing construction numbers.”
The new law is also intended as a preventative measure: to encourage housing construction and to put pressure on protracted conflicts over sensitive construction sites. Furthermore, objectors will soon only be able to go to the administrative court once, which must make a ruling within six months.
With a national housing construction target, municipalities will soon no longer have to draw up their own 'housing vision'. Of the total construction task, 40 percent must soon consist of affordable housing for the middle class. This concerns rental properties in the private sector that still fall within the rental protection standards, and owner-occupied properties up to 355,000 euros. Municipalities are obliged to build at least 30 percent social housing, and there must be sufficient housing for "attention groups" such as status holders, quitting sex workers and caravan residents.

Load Date: February 17, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")