Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=A coffee cup as a souvenir of Littenseradiel
NRC Handelsblad
November 21, 2017
NH Tuesday


Copyright 2017 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Domestic; Page 10
Length: 1904 words
Byline: Titia Ketelaar
Dateline: Wommels/Sneek.
Body


ABSTRACT
ReportLocal government
Many municipalities are merging at the end of this year, which is why they are holding elections on Wednesday. The Frisian Littenseradiel will be absorbed into three other municipalities. The mayor and citizens see benefits, but people are concerned.
Local government The Frisian municipality of Littenseradiel is split into three
The short lines. Whoever you speak to in the Frisian municipality of Littenseradiel talks about it: the short lines to the mayor, to the two aldermen, to the municipal council.
Murk Okkema, butcher and harbor master of Wommels, provides a good example. He wanted to adapt the facade of the butcher's shop. The aesthetics committee only allowed this with red stones. He presented four different shades of red, but she still didn't like it. Until the mayor went along to a meeting. “She pointed to the four colors. “Choose now, she said.” And hello." Soon, he fears, "I will have to go through ten officials before I speak to the mayor."
Because soon, after January 1, Wommels will no longer fall under Littenseradiel. The municipality is dissolved, the 29 villages with their 10,746 inhabitants are divided over three larger municipalities: Leeuwarden, Waadhoeke (with Franeker as the largest city) and Súdwest-Fryslân (with Sneek as the administrative center).
It is yet another reorganization in recent decades. Of the 1,015 municipalities in the Netherlands after the Second World War, 380 remained on January 1. And the end of the reorganizations is not in sight: a year later, another 17 municipalities have to merge. 'Administrative power' is the magic word.
“We have survived as a small municipality for a long time,” says Mayor Johanneke Liemburg (PvdA). “Collaboration can go a long way. But when your environment becomes so large, when upscaling takes place everywhere, then you just have to keep up, even because some things get quite complicated."
Coffee cups as a souvenir
In her room in the town hall in Wommels, there is a large blue container ready for waste paper. For seventeen years she looked out over the handball field from her room, now the town hall will probably become part of a nursing home. The plants have been sold, the cups with the Littenseradiel coat of arms from which coffee is still drunk will go to former municipal officials as a souvenir.
Liemburg and its councilors visited all 29 villages to explain why it was no longer possible on their own. The mayor says: “Take the privacy legislation and its consequences for ICT. Or the safety policy, what new requirements will be added."
She talks about meetings of the safety region, where colleagues from larger municipalities "had done their homework well because officials read all the documents and made comments." Liemburg: "I didn't have people for that."
She notes: "Society requires specialization." This proved increasingly difficult for a small municipality.
She also sees the downside of reorganization: the short lines are becoming longer. “Bureaucratic scaling up,” Liemburg calls it. “You have rules for a reason, of course. But sometimes they turn out to be unfair in individual cases. In a small municipality you quickly realize that.” Officials, she says, cannot change a rule themselves and are not inclined to quickly approach the administration. In Wommels she just meets them on the stairs.
Take the letter that the organizers of a village festival received: whether they wanted to take measures to prevent a terrorist attack. The largest village in Littenseradiel – Wommels – has just 2,200 inhabitants. “How should we do that, mayor,” Liemburg was asked. A translation of a national rule was necessary.
“I said the most important thing was that they should be aware that something unexpected can happen. This does not necessarily have to be a terrorist, but could also be a confused person or someone who goes out of control due to alcohol or drugs. Everyone could imagine that."
“I also meet civil servants in the canteen,” says mayor Hayo Apotheker (D66). Above his desk in the sixteenth-century town hall of Sneek hangs a map of the municipality of Súdwest-Fryslân, with the villages of Littenseradiel already there. As of January 1, Súdwest has 89,000 inhabitants and over 841 square kilometers. It is the largest municipality in the Netherlands in terms of area. With six - of the eleven Frisian - cities and 83 villages. A "statteland municipality", Apotheker jokes.
This flat countryside
Anyone who travels the twelve kilometers of dike between Wommels and Sneek will pass through Hidaard (132 inhabitants). On the horizon in this flat countryside loom the church towers of mound villages such as Itens (245 inhabitants). Lytsewierrum, also soon to be part of Súdwest-Fryslân, has only 68 inhabitants. Sneek is a real big city with its almost 34,000 inhabitants.
“Sneek has been the center of the region for centuries,” says Apotheker. Sneek is home to social services, the hospital, secondary schools, the theater and larger shops. Sneek also lent civil servants to surrounding municipalities. “You already did together a lot, for twenty different reasons we often met together." But, and according to him, this is the crux of reorganization: “There was no joint area vision, a fully-fledged local democracy deserves such an agenda. Now we form a board together."
For that reason he is in favor of larger municipalities - Súdwest itself is also the product of a merger in 2011. Not because of the services provided to citizens: "Merging for the sake of passports is nonsense, an extension is also possible with the Rabobank." to give local forces critical mass".
Apotheker gives an example: widening the lock at Kornwerderzand. Costs: 150 million euros, of which 'The Hague' did not immediately understand why it was necessary. The Frisian port cities do - yachts that are rebuilt in Friesland can then sail away through the lock. Another example: those same yacht builders needed staff, now the ROC Friese Poort offers ship and yacht building training. “That is also a service.”
And there is another reason, he says. “Housing corporations, educational foundations and healthcare institutions have all also become larger. As a large municipality you are a full-fledged sparring partner and negotiator."
In order not to lose touch with the villages and residents, Súdwest has village coordinators who have signing authority of up to 15,000 euros to quickly honor "small wishes". All five councilors are also points of contact for ten to fifteen villages, says the mayor.
Parting
In Littenseradiel, most residents think a reorganization is logical. The merger of 1984, when the nineteenth-century municipalities of Hinnarderadeel and Baarderadeel were merged into Littenseradiel, was more emotional. Douwe Willemsma from Itens, long-time councilor and alderman for the Fryske National Party (FNP), explains how the two were stuck together. “In the end it worked wonderfully well.”
People are now reacting more soberly: once it was clear that Littenseradiel was too small, the residents themselves opted for division. In the northeast people already went to Leeuwarden more often than to Sneek, in the northwest the orientation was already towards Franeker, just as in the southern part of the municipality people worked or shopped in Sneek. To say goodbye, a film has been made that will be shown in December with live music in the village halls.
Some residents say it could even be bigger than Súdwest-Fryslân. Germ Stenekes from Boazum, former sports reporter, ultimately sees the creation of one provincial municipality. Detsje de Groot from Hinnaard, a former postal employee, makes a comparison with pea soup: "Whether you make it for twenty people or for two people, the effort is the same." She says: "As long as we don't get snowed under, I think it's fine." ."
Mayor Liemburg is pleased to see that the chance is small. The ten villages that will be added to Leeuwarden have already joined forces. The closing standard for a school in Leeuwarden is a higher number of students. Liemburg: "While we were still talking to the administrators, the villages have already received a commitment from eleven of the twelve political parties that the closure standard for the villages will be adjusted."
Society demands specialization
Johanneke Liemburg mayor
Meijerijstad Three municipalities became one. What is the profit?
Fourteen municipalities will hold municipal elections on Wednesday instead of March 21, 2018. They will merge on January 1 and will then need a new municipal council and new aldermen. This concerns the Frisian municipalities of Súdwest-Fryslân, Littenseradiel, Leeuwarden, Leeuwarderadeel, Het Bildt, Franekeradeel and Menameradiel, the Groningen municipalities of Bellingwedde, Vlagtwedde, Hoogezand-Sappemeer, Menterwolde and Slochteren, and Rijnwaarden and Zevenaar in Gelderland.
On March 21, the residents of those municipalities can go to the polls again. Then the referendum will be held on the law on intelligence and security services, which opponents call the 'drag law'. This also applies to the residents of Edam-Volendam and Meierijstad, who were reorganized in 2016 and 2017 and therefore do not have to elect a new municipal council in March.
The idea behind reorganization is that only large municipalities can handle complex tasks such as youth care, long-term care for the elderly or the environmental law. Under the Rutte II cabinet, municipalities had to 'in principle' have one hundred thousand inhabitants or more and the aim was to have one hundred to one hundred and fifty municipalities by 2025. These goals have now been somewhat diluted.
The current coalition agreement says that "reorganization is desirable for municipalities that are long-term and highly dependent on joint arrangements for essential tasks." Waiting for bottom-up initiatives, however, does not always work: "It is then up to the province to start the reorganization procedure. "
Of the 1,015 municipalities that existed after the Second World War, 380 will be left on January 1. This does not yet put an end to the reorganizations: another 17 municipalities should merge on January 1, 2019 - a bill to this effect is before the Council of State.
To save money, a municipality does not have to merge, the Center for Research on the Economics of Local Authorities discovered a few years ago. And more or less administrative power is difficult to measure, says director Maarten Allers.
What does reclassification achieve? As of 2017, the municipalities of Veghel, Schijndel and Sint-Oedenrode merged to form Meierijstad. Mayor Marcel Fränzel (D66) thinks it is still a bit early for a complete judgement. Some gains have been achieved: business operations have become more efficient. And the costs will go down next year. One loss: "I no longer visited all the 50-year-old bridal couples, but invited all 300 at once."
How did the merger affect the approximately 80,000 residents? “When residents grumble, I ask: 'How often do you come for a passport or a building permit?' Probably once every ten years." Fränzel acknowledges: "Indeed, no one 'lives' in Meierijstad, in Keldonk or Erp. Villages are central to the experience. Each center of course has its own carnival."
Was the reorganization necessary? “If you have a stable management culture, your finances are in order and you are willing to work together, you will last a long time. If one of these three is not in order, then it is time to think about reclassification."

Load Date: November 21, 2017


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")