Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Senate gives green light for 'largest legislative operation since World War II'
De Volkskrant.nl
June 28, 2022 Tuesday 04:38 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 471 words
Byline: Natalie Righton
Body


  The Senate gave the green signal on Tuesday for 'the largest legislative operation since the Second World War'. The introduction of the so-called Environmental Act has already been postponed many times, but now it really seems to be happening.
The Environmental Act will have far-reaching consequences for anyone who ever wants to build a shed, dormer window or house. The law bundles dozens of laws and regulations in the field of spatial planning, which should make applying for a building permit easier and faster.
After ten years of pushing and pulling, a majority was signed in the Senate for the first time on Tuesday to introduce the Environmental Act as of January 1, 2023. The CDA submitted a motion in which the party advocates the adoption of the law. Although the vote on this will not take place until next week, it is already clear that a majority is in favor: coalition parties VVD, CDA and CU, as well as opposition parties PVV, Forum for Democracy, the Nanninga faction, the Fentrop faction, SGP and OSF want this. the Environmental Act will come into effect in six months' time.
Concerns about IT problems
There is a 'weighing moment' in October. A majority of senators are concerned about the IT problems that the digital counter for environmental permits is currently experiencing. The Senate will only give its final approval if the ICT Assessment Advisory Board judges in October that the reported problems have been sufficiently resolved. The Senate therefore wants to be able to pull the emergency brake in the autumn.
Municipalities, provinces and water boards would rather have clarity now, they recently wrote to Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge. As long as the entry date is not one hundred percent certain, civil servants must work with two digital systems side by side. That costs a lot of time and money, and can also lead to problems for permit applicants.
Blessing for construction
Despite all the criticism, CDA Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge calls the law 'a blessing for humanity'. According to him, the law will 'really help' to build hundreds of thousands of new homes. On Tuesday he spoke of a 'dark forest' of laws and regulations that 'slow down area development'.
VVD Prime Minister Mark Rutte has also been enthusiastic for years. He believes that the Environmental Act 'puts a strong line' on the excessive number of regulations that construction currently has to deal with. De Jonge's distant predecessor – Minister Melanie Schultz of Infrastructure, who initiated the law in 2010 – called the Environmental Act 'the largest legislative operation since the Second World War', which would pull the ailing economy out of the doldrums.
Critics once again hammered on Tuesday the 'major risks' associated with the 'unholy prestige project' (Otten group). According to GroenLinks and the PvdA, the government's substantiation that ICT chaos will not occur is 'too poor'.

Load Date: June 28, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")