Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Senate calls a halt to Minister Ollongren
NRC.nl
December 8, 2020 8:57 PM GMT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1005 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan, Rik Rutten
Highlight: First MPs fear that Ollongren is "pushing through" the Environmental Act under the guise of time pressure, according to an internal note.
Body


The Senate is on a collision course with Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs, D66) over the Environmental Act. Members of Parliament from the coalition and opposition are openly annoyed by the way in which Ollongren is "pushing through" that law, a major transformation of spatial planning, and slammed on the brakes on Tuesday, according to an official note seen by NRC. This means that the proposed introduction of the law, in a year's time, will suddenly become extremely difficult.
The Senate will become less political and will have less say in constitutional changes – if it is up to the House of Representatives. A majority there agreed on Tuesday with two of Ollongren's proposals. The Senate itself must still vote, and a second reading is required for both constitutional amendments.
One of the proposals is to have the Senate and House of Representatives vote jointly on the second reading from now on. If the 75 senators were to vote together with the 150 members of the House of Representatives, their influence would shrink.
According to the second proposal, senators are no longer elected at once after the provincial elections, but half of the senate is 'refreshed' by an election every three years. A fast-growing party cannot shake up the Senate in one go, such as FVD with 12 seats in 2019.
The Environmental Act was once announced as the 'largest revision of the law since 1848'. That was in 2014, under the Rutte II cabinet. Zoning plans, a permit for a dormer window or a street party, rules on felling trees and noise pollution: they all had to be brought together in one law. The foundation for the entire operation is a gigantic digital infrastructure: it takes over many tasks from civil servants and must easily guide citizens through the system of rules.
More and more political friction
But the introduction, which has been in the hands of Ollongren since the third Rutte cabinet took office in 2017, has since led to increasing political friction. Annoyance is growing, especially in the Senate: about major problems faced by the software developers and the municipalities that will soon have to work with it, about the risks of a rapid introduction and about the speed that Ollongren is putting behind it.
On Tuesday, the tension between the Senate and Ollongren reached a new level. With the introduction date in sight – January 1, 2022 – the Senate and House of Representatives may vote one more time to give the green light due to all the initial problems. With this compensation, Ollongren has managed to retain the support of the Senate so far. But in recent weeks she has given varying signals about what she will do if the majority of the members of the Senate say no.
The House of Representatives, where the coalition can obtain a majority without much difficulty, passed a motion this month urging progress. Both Houses should give their final agreement by the end of January at the latest. Ollongren is working on its implementation, says a ministry spokesperson. And so the Senate is rarely angry.
The senators feel overwhelmed by the haste of the House of Representatives and the ministry. And they express the concern that Ollongren is trying to force a majority under time pressure - or will simply ignore a no vote.
“As the Senate, we do not have the backbone of a slug,” says Theo Rietkerk of the CDA. Coalition partner ChristenUnie also expressed "major concerns" about a hasty introduction during a committee meeting on the Environment Act on Tuesday, committee members told NRC, and D66 also has doubts.
One by one, Senate members from the committee emphasize that they have serious concerns about the law, based on recent signals. For example, the municipalities that have to manage the Environmental Act properly – and bear part of the costs – are critical, as are the software developers.
“The minister is either ignorant or has started to believe the lies of her own ministry,” says director Lieuwe Koopmans of developer Tercera, who, among other things, must prepare the provinces for the Environmental Act. He now calls the chance of failure "extremely large". “The connection to the national ICT facility was a major drama.”
The BIT, the IT watchdog that the government itself set up to test IT projects and prevent digital blunders, already raised the question last month whether a "timely and successful" introduction is compatible. The advisory department of the Council of State also raised serious doubts about the desirability of an introduction, as long as it is unclear whether the digital infrastructure is in order and the municipalities are ready for it.
Both the Council of State and the BIT had already completed the investigation before the summer, but their findings were only recently shared with the House, several senators say. In the case of the Council of State, the ministry had even forgotten to do this: the registry accidentally discovered that they had been on the internet for quite some time, say insiders. That further fueled dissatisfaction among senators.
'Political hooliganism'
After a majority of the House of Representatives supported the motion calling on Ollongren to speed up, members of the Senate had their own clerk's office record that they could also participate in the discussion. That note intended for internal use, seen by NRC, emphasizes that "the wish of the Senate to have a final assessment moment" has been promised by Ollongren himself.
On Tuesday, the Senate members decided to complain by letter to the minister about the poor information position and the undesirability of a quick decision. Ollongren must say in a response that she will not skip the Senate, senators say. One of them speaks of “political hooliganism” when the minister refuses to listen.
The ministry does not want to respond to questions from NRC as long as Ollongren is still working on the elaboration of the House of Representatives motion. The petitioner, Julius Terpstra (CDA), also supports his encouragement to hurry after the criticism from the Senate. “The ship should leave the shore. Otherwise the puff will run out.”

Load Date: December 8, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")