Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Senate for introduction of Environmental Act on January 1
NRC.nl
July 12, 2022 11:42 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 246 words
Byline: Rein Wieringa
Highlight: With an adopted motion, the Senate wants to make it clear that the Environment Act is intended to come into effect on January 1, so that other authorities can already practice.
Body


The intention is and remains that the Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, 2023. The Senate expressed this in a motion that was adopted on Tuesday. An ICT advice will be issued in October, which should show whether the systems behind the new law are technically functioning properly. If that is the case, the Senate will definitively agree.
The Environmental Act should make it easier for citizens and companies to arrange permits themselves, for example for a renovation or for an event. A simplification of rules and laws for public spaces, it was said at the announcement in 2014, but since then the law has been plagued by technical problems and. Last month it emerged that the top officials of the Ministry of the Interior were internally critical of the introduction.
Research agency Deloitte published a report in mid-June on the progress of the ICT behind the Environmental Act. The interpretation of this differs: the motion adopted on Tuesday states that various parts are "functioning stably", while other senators believe that the ICT is "totally not in order".
Not everything is working as it should yet, Member of Parliament Theo Rietkerk (CDA), who submitted the motion, acknowledged in a debate last month. Nevertheless, the Senate wants to make it clear that the intention is for the Environmental Act to come into effect on January 1, so that other authorities can already practice implementing the law.
Also read: Ministry of the Interior suppressed criticism of the Environmental Act

Load Date: July 12, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")