Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=And there goes the great outdoors, slice by slice
De Volkskrant.nl
February 15, 2022 Tuesday 07:04 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 591 words
Byline: Frank Heinen
Body


  “How raw did this hit you?”
Bert Maalderink, NOS reporter at the Olympic Games, questioned national coach Coopmans after the disastrously failed team pursuit. Maalderink interviews have two variants.
There are the conversations in which Bert scalps, fries, eats the interviewee, boldly going where no Kockelmann has gone before, after which he thanks the interviewee for his candor.
And there is the salami technique, in which the interviewer continually cuts off thin slices of the confidence of the skater or coach in question, and approaches his or her considered indestructible core piece by piece. By the time Bert gets there, little of that indestructibility is left.
Just as you sometimes have to hand it over and trust that the best skaters in the world will help each other a little, you have to fervently trust that diplomacy will win over belligerence. And apparently you also have to trust that people will not come to your vaccination point with a silicone arm in their sleeve, as in the story by Italy correspondent Rosa van Gool. You must trust that the not yet existing sigma and tau variants of the virus will not retroactively make harakiri of scrapping all measures. It's out of your control, you hope for the best.
Likewise, as a citizen who owns simple walking shoes with hardened pratch placards in the profile soles, you must trust that at a certain point the salami tactics in Dutch nature policy will come to an end.
The what in the what?!
In NRC Handelsblad on Tuesday it was described how a Brabant golf club (an association, not a stick to hit with) kept taking a bite of the surrounding nature reserves. More greens, less green. With the entry into force of the new Environmental Act, nature conservationists expect that nature conservation and the market will cross paths more often. The expensive maintenance of nature reserves and recreational lakes is regularly transferred to commercial operators.
The Woudenberg Henschotermeer, where I have been coming all my life, has been surrounded by a fence for several years. There is also an entrance gate as you know from football stadiums. The site used to be public, but now you can hang out there all day in the summer for a limited amount, unless you have little money or a lot of children, because then 'limited amount' means something slightly different. A few months ago, plans were presented in which the nature reserve would be filled with an activity hall and chalets.
In other places, the once public green space has already been destroyed by companies that take work off the hands of the provinces, so that you have little choice but to trust that everything will turn out fine - which of course it never will. Because, say people who recognize a faltering revenue model in badgers and trees and silence and rare birds, even with the best binoculars, the Netherlands has no nature at all. Those few trees, that half stone marten... They are all parks anyway, so why not turn them into amusement parks too?
And another slice off, and another, until they get to the core and realize: so little nature is hardly worth protecting. And plok, there goes the last strip. They will soon plant the legally required compensation twigs, really, trust them.
Only: not right now. Now it is starting to smell wonderful at the recreation area (formerly: nature reserve). Someone put the last badger on the barbecue.

Load Date: February 15, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")