Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=There are more traffic jams than ever. That's the Tesla's fault
NRC.nl
October 18, 2022 6:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1072 words
Byline: Japke-d. Bouma
Highlight: There are more traffic jams than ever. Japke-d. Bouma understands that, especially now that the NS is performing so poorly. “There is no better place to work than alone in your car.” Fortunately, she also has tips on how to combat traffic jams.
Body


You would think: this is the time of working from home. The moment when everyone no longer has to be stuck in a traffic jam at the same time. But the opposite is true. There are more traffic jams than ever, as I recently read in Het Financieele Dagblad. Especially on Tuesdays and Thursdays, you can walk on the hoods at any time of the day.
This is due to 'hybrid working' - the combination of home and office that we have been talking about for three years but which still no one knows how to do. Because employers do not have the courage to come up with clear working from home rules, they leave it to their managers who have to coordinate all the wishes of their team. And then you soon end up going to the office on Tuesdays.
Because Monday is three-quarters off (four times nine hours), Wednesday the children are at home and on Thursday they want to go home a little earlier because they have already become quite tired from the working week. I recently heard about someone who couldn't come to the office on Friday because she had yoga.
And so on Tuesday the entire country is in lockdown. In recent years, 360,000 cars have been added (!) - undoubtedly also largely when we were no longer allowed to use public transport during corona. Everyone kept those cars nice after the pandemic.
Of course it's not a very woke thing to say, and I'm ashamed of it, but I understand those traffic jam drivers. It's wonderful in the car.
Thermos bottle with tea, sweets from the gas station. Have a sandwich, pick your nose, nice and warm, come home and enjoy it - super cozy even when it's raining.
Of course with cans of brown beans in the back, a warm blanket (a gray one from the Red Cross), fire extinguisher, double-barreled rifle, fishing rod, 83 fully charged power banks, rain barrel, Swiss army knife, a brazier - for when you really get stranded - and singing along with the power ballads on Radio Veronica. I know someone who drove back and forth from Nijmegen to Amsterdam extra once because she was listening to such a nice podcast.
The NS has not been a real alternative to traffic jams for months. Nowadays, during rush hour, the company offers passengers who are eating an egg sandwich on a crowded balcony, malodorous armpits at nose height and the smell of toilets that, according to the Volkskrant, "smell early in the morning as if everyone ate asparagus yesterday" - to talk about not to mention the folding bicycles. Defense is currently training its marines during train rush hours. Then I'd rather spend three hours on the highway.
The traffic jams are of course also the Tesla's fault - they are just too comfortable. In any case, those new (electric) cars. I was recently picked up from the station by a Polestar and I didn't know what I saw. That thing drives itself, accelerates faster than a Tesla, tells jokes, does your laundry, blow-dries your hair and afterwards it turned out that he had emailed my colleagues that I was temporarily unavailable - no colleague can compete with that.
Maybe we should start working more from the car, my publisher said recently – he has a Tesla and would prefer to stay in it all day. “Then you can start earlier and you don't have to drive so far.”
Because then you can also meet up at a P+R. Or everyone leaves their car at the office and moves in! An immediate solution for the tight housing market and it is simply very ambitious if your car is always parked at the office.
Peak tax could also work. Or whether it is mandatory to work on Wednesdays, that only people on their way to work are allowed to go during rush hour (and grandparents who look after the children) or that you are only allowed to drive on the road after thirty years in public transport - it is in any case better to to get all the boomers off the train with their oversized backpacks, windbreakers, folding bicycles and umbrellas.
You could also force people to alternate: those with odd birth years can go by car in odd years, they have to take the train the following year, and those with even birth years can use the road. Or that train workers are allowed to work from home full-time. Students and pupils always get priority on public transport – duh.
Or if everyone is already standing behind each other in a traffic jam, just have your lunch there - nice and quiet, also for cyclists and public transport users in the office. A separate lane for stationary car offices! Drive at a walking pace for the stand-ups and go full throttle again when that jerk from sales is speaking.
The national police force drives on the emergency lane with flip charts, Elon Musk ensures stable WiFi with extra masts, Sodexo does the mobile lunch. If we even make it to lunch! Because when the discussions are over, everyone takes the next exit and returns home – ideal.
But it would of course be best if we made NS a factor in this country again. So that we can also keep the planet somewhat livable. And there will not be even more cars, like driving middle fingers to the next generation. Yes, you too, with your Polestar. Make NS great again.
More about that next time!
This was (for now) Japke-d's last column. Bouma at the Economics editorial team. From November 1 she can be read by the Leven editorial team and her column will also be about other topics in addition to career and work.
These were the Pearls on Twitter this week
 @Japked what does this actually say? Are they going to build houses or not? pic.twitter.com/tKAC2zoqqZ — Eveline Kokx (@EvelineKokx) October 5, 2022
I now definitely & forever belong to a different generation. A while ago I was at a meeting about 'new policy'. It started with a 1.5-hour session 'Build your dream in Lego'. It's better for everyone if I keep quiet about it. pic.twitter.com/IvySdnRRqZ — Aad van Tongeren (@AadvanTongeren) October 5, 2022
 @Japked I recently heard about pieces with "an official smell". Help? How fast do you think I should run? — Maartje vd Avert (@MaartjevdAvert) October 7, 2022
Annemiek van Vleuten: “I still had an office job for two years. That puts things into perspective, because that wasn't all. That's what I think about when it rains” Bikkel☀️ @Japked   pic.twitter.com/I34xIZ8FG3 — Ine de Bock (@inedebock) October 8, 2022
“The manner in which these central operational management tasks are fulfilled is shaped and concretized in the Strategic, Tactical and Operational Management Organization management line.” Help, @Japked! #environmentallaw — senatorsaskia (@senatorsaskia) October 15, 2022
What's he going to do? pic.twitter.com/UbVYrqSifp — Roelf Jan Duin (@rjduin) October 17, 2022

Load Date: October 19, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")