Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Appoint expert on De Jonge's power over construction locations: 'He does not have that authority'
De Telegraaf.nl
April 5, 2022 Tuesday 9:13 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 518 words
Byline: our reporters
Dateline: The Hague
Body


Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge says he will, if necessary, forcibly designate areas as construction locations. “But how?” asks director Coen van Rooyen of the trade association WoningbouwersNL. “The problem is that unfortunately he does not have that authority.”
According to Van Rooyen, the minister cannot legally ignore municipalities or provinces. “As a minister you can say: 'do something with that location'. But that is different from implementing a decision. The local authorities will have to draw up the zoning plan. If the municipal council does not approve, the construction site will not be built. Minister De Jonge cannot simply say: an apartment complex will be built at Dorpsstraat 23.”
De Jonge will therefore have to consult, says Van Rooyen. “His designation will also have to fit in with regional and zoning plans. If he wants to build in Rijnsburg in Utrecht, it means, for example, that you can no longer install wind turbines there.”
Text continues below the photo.
Exceptional situation
Professor of housing construction Peter Boelhouwer from TU Delft states that such a zoning plan can be adjusted, but that it will take years. And even then, the question remains whether the judge will allow it if there is an objection from the municipality or province. “It must be in the interests of the government to do that. This is the case if, for example, a public road, a wind farm, a recreational area or industrial estate with national significance is needed. But just a few houses? I can not imagine it."
The coalition agreement also states that an appointment must come from De Jonge 'with due regard for local autonomy and appropriate guarantees'. The cabinet is now working on a bill that will determine 'how the government can regain control over public housing policy'.
An exceptional situation, says Boelhouwer. “It has never happened before that the government said: construction must take place there. They will try to make that possible with new legislation. For example, they could include that in the new environmental law, which should be introduced next year.” However, according to the professor, it would be quite a blunt measure. “In principle, the local government is responsible for the design of space. You then try to reject that. That's no small feat.”
Text continues below the photo.
Interfere in
However, according to both the professor and the director of the trade association, many municipalities will be happy if the minister gets involved. “Municipalities often do not mind it when the government plays a role, because it is often the provinces that obstruct construction plans,” says Van Rooyen.
He thinks that De Jonge can best focus on land that has already been purchased by developers and where the zoning plan allows housing construction. “Otherwise it could take a long time before anything is published. From the moment of a good idea to the zoning plan, there is an average of about six years.”
If De Jonge wants to be faster, the law must indeed be changed, Boelhouwer confirms. “At the moment he cannot simply say to municipalities: you have to build houses there.”

Graphic

 
Image, Peter Boelhouwer in front of his house., ANP/HH

Load Date: April 6, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")