Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Fierce resistance to sacrificing nature
The Telegraph
May 9, 2018 Wednesday
Rotterdam


Copyright 2018 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 12
Length: 442 words
Byline: Maarten Ritman
Body


'Do not compromise on National Landscape status'
by Maarten Ritman
OUD-BEIJERLAND - Hoekschewaards Landschap nature association strongly opposes the plans of the cooperating municipalities in the Hoeksche Waard to sacrifice nature for greater vitality and quality of life.
In preparation for the new environmental law, the five municipalities have already started the 'Implementation of the Hoeksche Waard Environmental Act'. A comprehensive document that discusses how to shape the new legislation and what opportunities and possibilities it offers.
The hard-won status of 'National Landscape' is viewed more businesslike. “As Hoeksche Waard, we have certainly reaped the benefits of this, especially in the form of investments in the landscape, such as in the creek structure,” the municipalities state.
“We must cherish these qualities and, if possible, further strengthen them. But this does not mean that the Hoeksche Waard is 'locked'. It was not. Its qualities and recognition offer opportunities for profiling and investments in the field of tourism/recreation and in the form of distinctive living/working environments.”
The status must be dealt with differently. “In the past, the status of National Landscape was linked to the preservation and protection of the core qualities of 'openness, dikes and creeks'. In practice, this does not stimulate initiatives that are necessary for the vitality and quality of life of and in the Hoeksche Waard.”
To the sadness of the Hoekschewaards Landschap, the association for nature conservation, the environment and historic village beauty. Cees Mesker, member of the General Board of HWL, states plainly that the municipalities are 'actually throwing away the status'.
Construction in beautiful nature reserves, both industrial estates and new residential areas, is discouraged as much as possible. “Especially in open areas, or along dikes, close everything up. We try to counteract everything that affects nature.”
He does not agree with the statement that the Hoeksche Waard is therefore 'locked'. “That is not the case, there is still plenty of room for cultivation. And contradiction does not have to get in the way of construction.”
He fears the consequences if the cooperating municipalities, which will be merged into one Hoeksche Waard later this year, continue with their plans.
According to the municipalities themselves, things will not go that smoothly. The landscape qualities make the Hoeksche Waard 'attractive for living, working and recreational environments'. “The challenge is to initiate 'desirable' investments and initiatives and to implement them in such a way that it is good for the area and the people in the area.”

Load Date: May 8, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")