Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dear editors
de Volkskrant
October 12, 2022 Wednesday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion; Page 29
Length: 625 words
Body


Overpopulation
In addition to the nitrogen problem, there is also the problem of water management and zoonosis, Ibtihal Jadib rightly notes in her column (First, 11/10). There is another topic that almost no one dares to tackle, and that is overpopulation.

Due to overpopulation, we slaughter billions of animals for food, there is overfishing, carbon dioxide enters our atmosphere and the diversity of nature has been murdered by billions of people.

Almost all topics in the Volkskrant are focused on human problems and occasionally on problems in nature. The basic problem of overpopulation is still too much avoided.

Dick Speijers, Nuenen
Participation
There is a misconception in the sophisticated Netherlands about what participation entails. For example, Peter Kool (O&D, 10/10) writes that it is striking that Sharon Dijksma submits a piece about 'Cities and residents who are sidelined in climate plans' (O&D, 7/10).

According to Kool, Dijksma's alderman in the municipality of Utrecht is a 'textbook example of pretending that citizens have a say through 'participation', after which she decides on what she thought beforehand.'

Participation means participating in discussions, thinking along and making your opinion heard. It does not mean that you can order the municipality to carry out your wishes. The municipality is free to disregard your opinion in the weighing of interests and come to a different decision. This cannot be otherwise with multiple interests. The misconception about participation and participation does not bode well when the Environmental Act comes into effect.

Luuk Spruit, Voorhout
Demand cartel
Peter de Waard discusses the idea of ​​a 'demand cartel' of oil importers as a counterpart to the 'supply cartel' Opec (11/10). Such a demand cartel existed: until about 1970, the major Western oil companies ('Seven Sisters') worked together to keep oil prices low, with political and, if necessary, military support from the British and American governments. The creation of Opec was a response to the market power of this demand cartel.

Camiel van Altenborg, Wageningen
scandalous
'Sector wants money from government', I read on Saturday in Firstly about the poultry breeders. What a strange reflex it is for companies to want to be financially compensated in the event of a setback. I've never seen the headline 'Company deposits unexpected profits into tax pot', even though that would make just as much sense.

The poultry sector is doing very well. They have been ignoring clear warnings from virologists for decades about the risks of bringing together bizarre numbers of birds in a small area. This also ignores the fact that food suitable for humans is given to chickens en masse. Against their better judgment, poultry companies took increasingly greater risks, which is now turning the tide: bird flu is here to stay and millions of chickens have already been culled this year.

Why on earth do I have to pay for that? Companies that take too many risks can go bankrupt. That's how it should be, it's their own problem. Just let them go bankrupt.

This is not about energy or medicines, but about products that we can easily do without. How bad will it be if we can no longer eat chicken meat or if we have to pay more for our eggs? Compared to our real problems, we would hardly notice it.

René Dijkgraaf, Harderwijk
Green card
Yesterday I took my grandson to his soccer practice. Afterwards we talked about yellow and red cards. 5-year-old Sinne asked why referees don't give green cards. Why only repressive interventions? Indeed, give out a green card for uplifting or sporting actions. It definitely makes for a sportier game.

Gaston Gast, Leeuwarden

View the original page: page 29

Load Date: October 11, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")