Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dear editors
de Volkskrant
March 10, 2023 Friday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion; Page 25
Length: 521 words
Body


Opinion
Man's brain
Letter writer Tielke Engels wants to know what goes on in the brains of men who are guilty of sexually inappropriate behavior (O&D, 9/3). I think the answer has already been succinctly given by the American comedian Robin Williams: 'God gave men both a penis and a brain, but unfortunately not enough blood supply to run both at the same time.' (God gave men both a penis and a brain, but unfortunately not enough blood to run both at the same time.)

Maria Elisa Jansen,

Oegstgeest
First room
The article 'The Senate must stop playing the House of Representatives' (First, 4/3) suggests that we are busy doing something we should not be doing. It does not mention that we are currently mainly busy with our constitutional task: reconsidering bills.

These weeks we are doing this intensively with, among other things, the Environmental Act (which affects all municipalities and provinces), the Pension Act (which affects almost all Dutch people) and the corrective referendum (which is requested by a majority of the population and a state commission). No game, just our job. It's just a knowledge.

Tiny Kox,

member of the Senate on behalf of the SP (since 2003)
Helmet requirement
We would like to endorse Sander Schimmelpenninck's column (First, 6/3). In this he explains why cycling is good and riding a scooter or moped is not. In addition, we would like to warn about the health effects of riding a 'fat bike' and other so-called e-bikes that are operated with a button or a 'throttle'.

The riders are getting younger and the speed is often well above 25 km/h. The danger to others and themselves therefore increases unnoticed. Moreover, almost all of them ride without helmets. It is recommended that these 'e-bikes' be regarded as mopeds in the regulations: helmets are therefore mandatory.

A helmet is also recommended for regular e-bikes and bicycles, because the increasing number of bicycle accidents with serious brain damage is of great concern to us. M. Koornneef, sports doctor, Uithoorn

F. Backx, sports doctor,

Maarssen
Peasant protest
The government advises against the motion to ban the use of tractors during demonstrations. The motion was submitted by the Party for the Animals, arguing that the police believe that it would otherwise be impossible to properly enforce the law. The minister denies that police position, stating that several demonstrators were prosecuted after the previous protests.

Tractors do not serve the right to demonstrate in any respect. Using tractors is intimidating. Possibly so intimidating that the Minister of the Interior does not dare to support the motion. I'm curious which political parties do have that courage when voting.

Frans Aarts,

Renkum
(Un)paid work
What a missed opportunity that Minister Karien van Gennip (SZW) calls on employers to ask women to work more paid hours. Much better would be a call for men to work more unpaid work in caring for children, parents and the household. Because that is where the problem lies.

Erik Toussaint,

Cuijk

View the original page: page 25

Load Date: March 9, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")