Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Largest legislative operation since World War II will take effect on January 1, 2024 (for real this time)
De Volkskrant.nl
March 14, 2023 Tuesday 02:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 630 words
Byline: Natalie Righton
Body


 The Senate approved on Tuesday 'the largest legislative operation since the Second World War'. The introduction of the so-called Environmental Act has already been postponed many times, but now the decision has been made that the law will come into effect on January 1, 2024.
The Environmental Act will have far-reaching consequences for anyone who ever wants to build a shed, dormer window or house. The law bundles dozens of laws and regulations in the field of spatial planning, which should make applying for a building permit easier and faster. In this way, many unnecessary rules in the areas of water, air, soil, nature and infrastructure are being scrapped.
After years of pushing and pulling, the law was passed by the Senate in 2016, but its introduction was postponed several times. Partly because of the complexity of the law and because of the IT problems that the new digital counter for environmental permits appeared to be experiencing. A majority of the Senate now believes that these problems can be surmounted.
During a roll-call vote, 41 senators voted in favor and 29 against the introduction of the Environmental Act as of January 1, 2024. Supporters are the Senate members of coalition parties VVD, CDA, D66, CU, as well as opposition parties Forum for Democracy, the Nanninga faction, and the Fentrop faction. Voters against this include members of GroenLinks, PvdA, SP, Party for the Animals, 50-Plus and the Otten faction.
Blessing for construction
Despite all the criticism about its feasibility, CDA Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge calls the law 'a blessing for humanity'. According to him, the law will 'really help' to build hundreds of thousands of new homes. Last summer he spoke of a 'dark forest' of laws and regulations that 'slow down area development'.
VVD Prime Minister Mark Rutte has also been enthusiastic for years. He believes that the Environmental Act 'puts a strong line' on the excessive number of regulations that construction currently has to deal with. De Jonge's distant predecessor – Infrastructure Minister Melanie Schultz, who initiated the law in 2010 – called the Environmental Act 'the largest legislative operation since the Second World War', which would pull the ailing economy out of the doldrums.
Despite all the advantages mentioned, civil servants have been slightly less optimistic than policymakers in The Hague in recent years, partly because they fear that the digital counter will not connect well with other IT systems they work with. Yet it is precisely the officials of municipalities, provinces and water boards who urged the Senate last summer to quickly decide when the new Environmental Act would come into effect. As long as the entry date is not one hundred percent certain, civil servants must work with two digital systems side by side. That costs a lot of time and money, and can also lead to problems for permit applicants.
Big risks
Critics in the Senate once again hammered on Tuesday the 'major risks' associated with the 'ill-considered political prestige project', according to Henk Otten on behalf of his two-man faction. He calls the introduction of the Environmental Act in nine months 'an irresponsible leap in the dark'.
The left-wing parties warned on Tuesday mainly about the possible instability of the new digital counter where citizens will soon have to apply for building permits. “Things are not well put together and will get stuck,” says the Party for the Animals; 'A reliable and stable counter is lacking,' the PvdA believes; “Our concerns have not been addressed,” says GroenLinks. The SP fears that 'a legal quagmire' is threatening.
Martin van Rooijen of 50Plus points out the legal task of the Senate to check whether laws are enforceable. “It's simple: this is not feasible.”

Load Date: March 15, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")