Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Hague power grab goes wrong for VVD
The Telegraph
August 18, 2022 Thursday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 3
Length: 315 words
Body


From our parliamentary
editorial
The Hague - The VVD has run out of steam. Party leader Sophie Hermans has allowed the cabinet to switch to a remedy by accommodating asylum seekers in municipalities via the Environment Act, even if they do not want that. Tubbergen has the scoop.
With the State elections around the corner, the VVD is once again antagonizing its own supporters. Several former ministers criticize both State Secretary Van der Burg (Asylum) and faction leader Hermans, who in their view fail to tackle the problem at its root. "That won't happen, because they are in a coalition with D66 and CU," it sounds. Sophie Hermans really needs to show her teeth now, one thinks. "The VVD has traditionally been against unbridled immigration. If you as a party If you hold the controls for too long, you dilute your own position. If you don't correct that, you will pay the price," he said. It bubbles and ferments in more places in the party. The Limburg department has written a letter stating that this is no longer the case. "It does not sit well with us if our constitutionally autonomous position is trampled upon." The letter states: "The support for receiving asylum seekers is actually decreasing drastically with the current working method." The stretch is out, it is emphasized. “Our municipalities are cracking under the high influx figures. The cabinet must really get the matter under control itself." Other local departments are also distancing themselves from the power grab in The Hague. "It is a shame to sideline the local democracy of Tubbergen in this way. That is far below standard," says VVD member Reinier Geerligs of the Rijssen-Holten department. "Forgot the VVD election programme?" he sneers. Joris Poffers, party leader of VVD Dinkelland, is "completely done with this cabinet". "Worthless and unworthy of liberalism."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 17, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")