Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Trade treaty Ceta sails through the Senate with the help of PvdA
De Volkskrant.nl
July 12, 2022 Tuesday 12:33 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 362 words
Byline: Arnout Brouwers
Body


  The Senate has voted in favor of the Ceta trade treaty with Canada. This means that the Dutch ratification of this treaty is a fact. The PvdA, which voted against the treaty in the House of Representatives, actually supported it in the Senate.
The Netherlands is the sixteenth EU country to ratify the trade agreement. Eleven other Member States have yet to do so. PvdA senator Ruud Koole, who played a crucial role in the ratification process, gave a brief explanation of vote in the Senate:  'We looked at facts and circumstances and assessed them through a social democratic lens aimed at a peaceful, fair and sustainable world. Then we conclude that Ceta is not ideal, but contributes to a strong Europe in an unstable world; that the treaty itself takes major steps forward in the protection of the environment, decent work and an independent judiciary.'
Koole also mentioned the new complaints mechanism for EU trade agreements, which 'strengthens the position of trade unions and NGOs'. GroenLinks senator Farah Karami stated on Monday that Ceta undermines democracy, but Koole disagreed. “We note that democracy is not affected by Ceta, and that by adhering to strict rules, Ceta is fighting neoliberalism.”
Moreover, the Senate factions of PvdA and GroenLinks vote for the same bills in 99 percent of the cases, according to information from the parliamentary documentation center PDC.
Ceta is the first bill in more than a year on which the factions have different opinions. According to the PDC, the factions previously voted differently on, for example, the temporary corona admission ticket law, the 2020 Tax Plan and parts of the Environmental Act.
One of the next countries to ratify Ceta is likely to be Germany. The coalition government of Social Democrats, Greens and Liberals recently reached a compromise on this. As part of their agreement to the treaty, the Greens insist that further agreements be made within the EU and between the EU and Canada to ensure that companies do not abuse the ICS dispute mechanism.

Load Date: July 12, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")