Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=On to the roof for extra living space: is 'topping' buildings the solution to the housing shortage?
De Volkskrant.nl
February 18, 2024 Sunday 03:37 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1578 words
Byline: Kirsten Hannema
Body


Minister Hugo de Jonge sees 'topping' buildings, where extra floors are placed on roofs, as one of the solutions to the housing shortage: one hundred thousand homes should be built in this way by 2030. Architects see opportunities, but also obstacles.
The Aquarius flat in Amstelveen was called 'the horror flat'. A building like many in post-war neighborhoods, but where the problems went beyond poor insulation and outdated installations. “Weed plantations, prostitution: we came across all kinds of things here,” says Thijs Faber, project developer at the Eigen Haard housing association, the owner of the flat. “Making it more sustainable, as we did there in 2016” – he points to two adjacent flats – “doesn't solve that problem. Moreover, another problem arose: the increasing housing shortage.'
Various scenarios to tackle the Aquariusflat were considered, from demolition-new construction to total renovation. But when it turned out that the zoning plan offered the option of 'topping' the flat with an extra floor, the choice was quickly made. Faber: 'This allowed us to preserve the building, which is sustainable, and create 34 additional apartments at the same time as the renovation.'
The flat was cleared, completely stripped and then fitted with a well-insulated facade, energy-efficient installations and new entrances. Architect Roald van den Bedem of AG NOVA Architects has crowned the building with the extra floor, made of wood. 27-year-old Anouschka, resident of a 37 square meter 'penthouse' - her first home - imagines herself in the tower of the Petteflet. 'The view is grand, but the wood also gives it something cozy.' Fellow resident Arjen, who moved back after the renovation, believes that he now lives in 'the most beautiful flat in Amstelveen'.
Minister Hugo de Jonge sees 'topping up' as one of the solutions to quickly realize new homes. Research shows that approximately one hundred thousand additional homes can be built in this way by 2030. Now that new construction production is stagnating due to rising mortgage interest rates and construction prices, this approach seems promising. After all, infrastructure and sewerage are already there, and if you approach it wisely, you can immediately make a building more sustainable.
What is needed to give wings to this development, which has been seen as promising for some time, but has not yet taken off?
Use flat roofs
The roof structure is not a new phenomenon. Until now, it was mainly private individuals who had an upper floor added to their house to create extra living space. A spectacular example is the Smurf blue 'village' that architectural firm MVRDV built in 2006 on a monumental building in Rotterdam-West. The designers placed three houses on the flat roof, in which bedrooms were created for the residents, with a small square, picnic area and an open-air shower in between. The design was a call to make better use of the 400 million square meters of flat roofs in the Netherlands.
Architect Mark Snitker sees 'certain opportunities' for this. But when he and his partner Leen Borst built eight maisonettes on an office building in Amstelveen, he also encountered the necessary challenges. Snitker: 'The first question was: can the building bear the extra load? According to the construction calculation, not much weight could be added; topping was only possible with timber construction. You have to look carefully at sound transmission and fire safety. Furthermore, according to the zoning plan, you must provide parking spaces at every new home. Fortunately, there was a parking lot near the office where we could fit in extra parking space with some puzzling. Local residents then objected, which led to a one-year delay.'
The reason for the project was the dated office building, which was in need of maintenance and sustainability; a costly operation. The building owner decided to finance this with the development of rental apartments, which were built on the roof at the same time as the renovation. In contrast to the brick building, the architects designed an 'airy' top, finished with white aluminium.
Three, four extra layers
The terraced 'mountain' with penthouses that has risen in the heart of Amstelveen on top of the parking garage next to the V&D building is part of a similar business case. “We often combine topping with the transformation of old shop buildings whose upper floors are no longer profitable,” says Frederik Vermeesch, architect partner at Rijnboutt, which made the design. 'Because these buildings are in the center and you do not have to create additional parking spaces for new homes, it is interesting for investors to develop apartments there. And because the supporting structure is usually stronger than necessary, you can often add three or four layers.'
Here it turned out to be more beneficial to place additional homes on the adjacent – ​​rebuilt – parking garage. Vermeesch: 'Initially we were going to create 2,500 square meters of living space, but during construction it turned out that 6,000 square meters were needed to make the plan financially viable. The parking garage, which was already there, was not designed to support so many additional homes. That is, if we were to build those homes in the standard way, with concrete. We therefore developed a special, lightweight steel construction with the constructor, with which we could still realize the extra homes on top of the garage.'<b><br></b>
Vermeesch is currently working on plans to raise the height of the former V&D building in Maastricht and the C&A building in Groningen. In the latter building, the concrete structure is demolished up to the first floor and then topped up. "If we leave the entire structure standing, twenty apartments would fit in it, but by placing a new supporting structure on top, we could realize 45 homes," the architect explains. 'Topping up is therefore a nuanced matter: you have to look at each project to see how you can make optimal use of the available space and capacity within the revenue model.'
Low hanging fruit
Bram Hertzberger thinks that topping should be tackled 'systematically'. "Otherwise you won't achieve those hundred thousand extra homes." Together with Levi Koppenhol and Younes El Ayadi, he founded the company Creative City Solutions in 2021, which realizes sustainability and top-up projects for owners' associations, especially in post-war neighborhoods. 'We saw homeowners' associations struggle with maintenance and renovation. The budget usually does not take into account the minimum 30,000 euros required to bring a home from energy label G to A. They find it difficult to weigh up the investment, comfort, inconvenience and the monthly energy bill. We have devised a format to guide them in these types of projects. We use the income from the sale of top-up homes to improve the existing apartments.'
Their first completed project includes two gallery flats in the Amsterdam district of Buitenveldert, each with ten homes. Because the extra building layer is built with the same type of brick as the facade, you do not immediately recognize it as an addition. “People are surprised,” says Hertzberger. 'When they think of roofing, they think of a built-in roof structure, but these are modern apartments with energy label A+++. When the residents of the adjacent flat – an identical copy – saw the plan, they wanted this too.' The two flats were renovated at the same time to save costs. Hertzberger hopes to repeat this project in more places. 'That is possible because these types of flats were built in series at the time. We see this as the low-hanging fruit.”
Yet there are stumbling blocks. For example, everyone in the association must agree to the plans. And in Amsterdam many homes are on leasehold land. Hertzberger: 'For these additions, the municipality charged 140,000 euros per home for the buyout of leasehold. That amount cannot therefore be invested in making existing homes more sustainable. We are discussing this with the municipality.'
Simplify
The enthusiasm for building on roofs has increased in recent years, Faber notes. 'We did not even consider topping up the flats that we previously renovated in Amstelveen. We now include it as a standard option in preliminary research for sustainability. We have also mapped the flat roofs within our housing stock; This resulted in about four hundred buildings that you could top up on. To achieve this, he believes, corporations and municipalities must 'move away from traditional working methods' and 'develop a joint vision'. Architect Van den Bedem: 'What will help is that the new environmental law will soon create one municipal counter, where you can submit your plan to the various departments: building, traffic, landscape. So that you immediately know: is this even a case?'
Hertzberger advocates an urban vision in which locations for topping are determined. “Then you can already map out what the situation there is with parking, foundations and aesthetic requirements.” “The preconditions for topping must become more favorable,” Vermeesch concludes. 'This can be done, for example, by removing the requirement for additional parking spaces, by banning demolition-new construction in certain places and by tackling certain tax rules. So that these types of projects can get off the ground more easily.' Or better said: on the roof.

Load Date: February 19, 2024


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")