Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=How do you make a city? Architecture; Interview Henk Ovink
de Volkskrant
April 13, 2012 Friday


Copyright 2012 PCM Uitgevers B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: V Opening; Page 16
Length: 1675 words
Byline: Making City, from 4/20 to mid-November. http://iabr.nl, By Bob Witman
Body


The fifth International Architecture Biennale focuses on the future of the city. Curator (and top civil servant) Henk Ovink explains. By Bob Witman
The international success of Dutch architects and designers already suggested it, but now it is scientifically proven: the Netherlands has good designers. Moreover, it is a well-designed country. These are two outcomes of an international comparative study by the University of Amsterdam. Henk Ovink, director of spatial planning at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment (I and M), quotes it with approval in his office in The Hague.
'The profession of designer is a crucial and special profession,' says Ovink. 'It brings together a number of qualities.' First the designer analyzes the issue. He gives it context in the present, past and future. A solution is then devised: a concrete form. 'A designer must be able to work on the millimeter as well as the kilometer. He is the link between abstract thinking and practical implementation. That combination of qualities makes the designer so special.'
In the Netherlands, a number of people are very good at this, Ovink believes. 'Take the A2 highway. It is not coincidental that it is located this way in the landscape. The slope is raised, the road surface curves slightly, the crash barriers are recessed, so you drive through the country differently. It was invented by landscape architects and engineers. You feel like you can touch the landscape. Good design can do that.'
The research into the design quality of the Netherlands will only be officially published this summer, together with the new architecture memorandum for 2012-2015. This is being worked on intensively in the office of Henk Ovink (44). This is partly the footprint of how the Netherlands will deal with space, design and the environment over the next four years. 'Architecture note is actually not a good word, it goes from brick to process. But yeah, that's not a nice title either.'
Artistic civil servant
Ovink has an atypical CV in the world of senior civil servants. He started out as a mathematician and artist. Another work of art by his hand lies in a Groningen university pond: Brachistochrone. A graceful series of metal loops. It depicts 'a mathematical problem in which the fastest slide is sought between two points that are not at the same height'.
Ovink has been co-designer of the major spatial planning plans in the Netherlands for the national government for almost five years. Pictures that should provide planning coherence in the economic, social and ecological ambitions of the country. It is not common for such an official position to be combined with something as frivolous as the curatorship of an architectural event. Yet Ovink is one of the five curators of the fifth International Architecture Biennale Rotterdam (IABR). It starts on April 20 and has the theme: Making City.
'Not usual, but not strange in this case,' Ovink thinks of this mixture of functions. 'This Biennale is not an exhibition. It's a process.' This process involves a continuous search for the answer to the question: how do you create a city? 'The Biennale is about multi-year projects with real people, real problems and real solutions.' The emphasis is on the city, because that is the place where all complex design tasks will come together in the coming years.
'A civil servant must have both feet in society,' is how Ovink justifies his curatorship. The Biennale follows urban projects in Rotterdam, Istanbul and Sao Paolo throughout the various editions. 'International, because you can learn from each other. And practically oriented, because: if you make policy and rules, you have to know society, the tasks and all parties. Reality will catch up with you if you try to simplify things too much.'
Making City is the third edition of the IABR that has 'the city' as its subject. All demographic developments indicate that the pressure on the city continues to increase. Soon 80 percent of the world's population will live in a city. That means that 90 percent of all money is made on 4 percent of the Earth's surface.
The crisis has seriously changed the city's growth prospects. “The pause button has been pressed on the real estate market,” says Ovink. 'We also know that that pause button heralds a new time. Nothing remains as it was. That's not just negative. It gives enormous dynamics.'
This dynamic must be visible at a number of Test Sites. These are sub-programs of the Biennale that do not consist of a theoretical exhibition, but of real construction projects. One of these is the modernist office building Schieblock in Rotterdam, dating from 1959. This is located on Hofplein and is part of the station area, which it had already been decided before the crisis that it would be completely overhauled.
According to the old pre-crisis rules, the Schieblock had to be demolished. In the Netherlands, if there is a demolition permit, you must demolish within a certain period. While everyone knows that there is currently no investor who will build new offices. Ovink: 'What happened there is that a plan became entangled in a web of rules.' Demolition seemed inevitable, but the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment has a new instrument to prevent the city from being left with a hole for years to come.
The Rotterdam architectural firm ZUS (Zones Urbaines Sensibles) designed a temporary destination for the Schieblock. A combination of a city laboratory with small tenants and entrepreneurs. Relatively low rents. A place for companies that develop activist plans for the city. And there is a sketch for a wooden, elevated walking route: De Luchtsingel, which will connect the place back to the center.
Intervening in rules
ZUS's plan would not succeed if everyone stuck to the original rules. 'What you see is that generic rules, which have all been individually devised with good intentions, get in each other's way. Rules in themselves always have a reason, but the accumulation of them sometimes creates absurd congestion. The central government can then intervene. That is our role.'
In this case, we worked in accordance with the principles of the Environmental Act and the Crisis and Recovery Act, a new instrument with which the central government can overrule existing procedures. The Schieblock has now become a popular project among Rotterdam residents. Last week, a vegetable garden was opened on the roof, the first in the Netherlands.
For Ovink, the Schieblock is an example of how the central government will soon be concerned with architecture and space. 'Less premeditated interference, more provision of a good basis and an activist role where possible.' Such as using the environmental law as a crowbar.
'But other parties have to bear it. Ultimately, the ZUS agency, the municipality and the developer create this project. Not the central government.' Daring to let go, trusting the entrepreneurship of the Dutch and local authorities, that is the course that the new architecture memorandum must also take.' That takes some getting used to, because the Netherlands has a long tradition of central planning. It dates from the 1930s, when the central government had control over what was built and where. 'They say that in Belgium you are born with a brick in your stomach. You are almost guaranteed to build your own house there once in your life.'
In the Netherlands, the majority of housing construction still consists of housing realized by the market and corporations, supply-driven rather than demand-driven. In addition, the Netherlands has the largest percentage of social housing in Europe. 'Private commissioning must grow, that is one of the tasks that the cabinet will advocate in the new architecture memorandum. And if that is what is meant by the expression 'Belgian conditions', yes please," says Ovink.
For the Biennale, Ovink has selected a number of national design issues, which are studied in the Atelier Making Projects.
'These are real design questions, not theoretical exercises,' says Ovink. How do you turn the Zuidas in Amsterdam into a real part of the city? How do you ensure that the Drechtsteden are not flooded by rising water? What does the temperature difference between Rotterdam city and the surrounding area mean, which sometimes reaches 9 degrees Celsius?
In the previous edition there was still criticism that the Architecture Biennale was too introverted. Too much something by and for architects. 'This edition is earthy,' says Ovink. Focused on how governments, designers and private parties can get things done together in the city.
Does Ovink not find it a problem that he and his ministry are so enthusiastic about a cultural initiative like this Biennale that, like many other cultural institutions, runs the risk of being cut by another ministry? 'I think that can be easily separated. A new architecture fund has been set up to decide on subsidies. The ministries have no say in this. But if you ask me: do you think the IABR is a powerful instrument? Then, from my perspective as a spatial planner, I say with conviction: yes.'
Making City, from 20/4 until mid-November. http://iabr.nl
In the Smart Cities exhibition at the NAI, architectural
students plan to 'make the city smarter'. The Tar Creek Supergrid is a project by the University of Toronto to create a floating city above the contaminated soil of an old open-pit mine landscape in Oklahoma. Photo Amy Norris and Clint Langevin
Hollandstad is a project of the Fontys Architecture Academy in Tilburg. It proposes a new structure for the Randstad, where cities are not the starting point for thinking. The Green Heart is the starting point. A new water structure (Wexpo) should improve the connection between greenery and living. &discReturn; Photo Fontys HS for the Arts
'The pause button has been pressed on the real estate market. We know that that pause button heralds a new time.' Henk Ovink about the city's growth prospects.

Graphic

 
ZUS's plan for De Luchtsingel, which connects the Schieblock with other parts of the center of Rotterdam. The Luchtsingel is a walking route, but also a location for activities and meetings. ZUS's plan won the prize for the best City Initiative. 4 million euros are available for implementation. Part of the canal already exists. The rest will be constructed in the coming months. Photo SISTER

Load Date: April 12, 2012


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")