Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=How can we live dry in a wetter Netherlands?
NRC.nl
January 1, 2024 8:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1888 words
Byline: Eppo Konig
Highlight: Zwolle faces the same questions about the future as the whole of the Netherlands. Where and how can we continue to build safely when the water rises?
Body


More articles from the series:
There is a new construction project on Zwolle's star-shaped city canal that should also allow you to live dry in 2100. It is called the Crane Bolwerk, once a defensive bastion with a crane, later a heavily polluted industrial estate with a lacquer factory. Now there are about 230 sleek homes on the canal, on top of a semi-sunken parking garage, with the highest point being 3.20 meters above sea level.
That is well above the quay, over which the water lapped in some places around Christmas. It was the highest water level in 25 years for the city, but it turned out not to be necessary to install emergency barriers. The flooding was limited to flooded cellars and a swampy golf course.
“The Kraanbolwerk is actually built on a kind of podium,” says urban planner Henk Snel from the municipality, during a bike ride through Zwolle with colleague Andreas van Rooijen from climate policy. “In the summer, residents can sit on it with a glass of white wine.”
The plan took shape years ago after the Delta Commission of former minister Cees Veerman (2007-2008), which recommended rigorous climate measures. Snel: “Then we also thought: shit, do we still have to build here at the level of the quay? Or do we have to go up to be safe from the water?”
The semi-sunken parking garage turned out to be a good way to raise part of Kraanbolwerk and remove cars from the street. Snel: “The entrance to the garage is at quay level. If the water were to really get that high, residents could close the entrance watertight with aluminum bulkhead beams.”
Suppose the level were to rise that high in the future, wouldn't the lower historic city center of Zwolle be flooded? Who knows, Van Rooijen suggests that the canal quays will also have been raised by then. “Adapting to climate change takes steps. It cannot and does not have to be done all at once.”
The Netherlands in miniature
The Zwolle region is sometimes called “the Netherlands in miniature” within the national government. It is a delta with rivers and streams, urban areas and countryside, height differences, dry sandy soils, spongy peat and wet clay – actually with a bit of everything.
The city center of Zwolle is located outside the dike and the city canal is in open connection with the IJsselmeer. If the level in the IJsselmeer rises, or during a northwesterly storm, Zwolle will have to process more water. In wet winters, more water is added from the IJssel, the Vecht and the Sallandse Weteringen. In dry summers, Zwolle will have to retain more water.
More space is therefore needed to temporarily collect and store water. At the same time, the capital of Overijssel (132,000 inhabitants) needs space for major construction plans. Approximately 50,000 additional homes must be built in the growth region by 2040.
Zwolle, for example, faces the same spatial issues as the Netherlands as a whole. The outgoing government wants to build almost a million new homes by 2030, and another million by 2040 if population growth continues. At the same time, the sea and rivers are encroaching, and the level in the IJsselmeer will have to be able to rise to collect water as a 'national rain barrel'.
Where and how can we continue to live dry in the Netherlands with a more extreme climate? “With all the dikes and other flood defenses, the Netherlands is still one of the safest deltas in the world,” puts Anne Loes Nillesen, professor of urban design at TU Delft, with her own design agency, Defacto, in Rotterdam into perspective. Since the turn of the century, rivers have been given more space through depoldering, the moving of dikes and the digging of secondary channels. Nillesen: “Nevertheless, the drainage of rainwater will become an increasingly greater challenge. The biggest, I think.”
For example, the water level in the Maas and Rhine, the two largest rivers in the Netherlands, will drop significantly in the summer and rise significantly in the winter due to rain and meltwater, according to calculations by Rijkswaterstaat, the KNMI and the Deltares knowledge institute. Around 2100, the Meuse is expected to discharge 20 percent more water than now in winter, up to possibly 35 percent more in 2150.
With rising sea levels, it will become increasingly difficult to pump excess ground and surface water to the sea, as is currently done. “And our water system is very much focused on preventing flooding in the event of dike breaches and flooding due to rainfall,” says Nillesen. “But the system is less focused on dealing with the consequences if it does happen.”
One meter of sea level rise
Where it is no longer possible to build safely, and where it can and how, is currently being worked out in The Hague. New spatial guidelines, a so-called 'assessment framework', must be introduced this spring. It also contains maps of the Netherlands including water risks and soil conditions at district level. These maps are made by Nillesen's company and two engineering firms, on behalf of the Ministries of Infrastructure and Water Management (IenW) and the Interior.
This spatial policy is based on all climate scenarios up to 2100, including one meter of sea level rise, say René Vrugt, director of soil, space and climate adaptation, and policy officer Rik Heinen at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management in The Hague. It translates how water and soil will from now on be paramount in the design of the Netherlands. It can help to assess the risks of a construction plan at a specific location. For example, is the construction site between the river and the dike with a risk of flooding? Can the soil support the weight of buildings, or will the soil subside?
Heinen: “New homes that are founded on concrete piles will remain standing. But especially in public spaces you get subsidence due to subsidence: sewer pipes that crack, network cables that break. This can result in enormous management costs for the government.”
Vrugt: “We already know that construction can still continue in many places in the north, east and south of the Netherlands. In the west too, but there are more risks and more measures must be taken to build climate-proof buildings.”
There are also places where construction will no longer be allowed, such as along the coast, in the IJsselmeer area or in the floodplains of the major rivers. In principle, this also applies to the Krimpenerwaard next to Rotterdam, a deep polder with a soft soil, unless there are compelling reasons to build there.
Around Zwolle - because the Netherlands in miniature - it will differ per district where and how construction can take place, they say in The Hague.
In the city itself, civil servants Snel and Van Rooijen mainly grumbled during the bike ride about the arrival of the water and soil maps. Snel: “It's that digital thinking. You can already sense the social debate coming.” Van Rooijen: “It will soon be just like with that nitrogen ticket. Look especially at what is possible, with innovative solutions and local knowledge from centuries of living with the water.”
Here, for example, along the water in Park de Wezenlanden, there are neat town houses with steps up to the front door and the first floor. What is invisible from the street: in the basements there is a concrete sheet pile wall throughout the entire row of houses. Quick: “Those houses are not on the dam, the facades are the dam themselves.”
Or take the 'Superkolk' in front of the Zwolle station square. It looks like a shell-shaped art object, but it is a drain with a storage space for 600,000 liters of rainwater. During downpours, the Superkolk prevents the surrounding area from drowning, and during drought it releases water to surrounding green areas.
If the Superkolk storage room is full - which has never happened yet - then the excess water can flow into the large underground bicycle cellar in front of the station. Van Rooijen: “Then you think: all those bicycles will be destroyed. But it doesn't go any higher than a bicycle wheel.”
Government officials in The Hague say that with the water and soil maps they mainly want to show where the effects of climate change will be, so that governments can make good choices for construction plans. Heinen: “For example, rainwater drainage was always a local task. But that is no longer acceptable for each municipality on its own.”
The intention is to lay down the new spatial policy legally and administratively, as in the new Environmental Act, says director Vrugt. “That is of course a process that you cannot complete in a day.” It is then clear where construction is no longer allowed; where it does remain a local decision.
The national government is also looking at how best to build during heavy rain, prolonged drought and extreme heat. There is already a 'green benchmark' with general requirements for governments, housing associations and project developers. Solutions include green roofs to retain water or semi-paved streets for water drainage. In any case, it is not the case that a large part of the Netherlands will become a prohibited area for construction due to climate risks. Nillesen: “I think there are very few places.” Heinen: “It is not possible to put a figure on what will be more or less suitable in the future.”
Not just safety
Building with policy is also a public interest, says Vrugt. “It's not just about safety. Pension funds, insurers and banks will also want to be sure that their investments in the housing market are climate-proof.” Project developers, and also private individuals, will have to take into account additional costs that may entail climate risks, such as flooding or foundation problems.
Existing buildings will not have to disappear, and advanced plans will not simply be scrapped, government officials say. Such as the more than four hundred homes planned in Stadsblok-Meinerswijk in Arnhem - in the floodplains of the Rhine, but at least 14 meters above NAP, according to the website. Heinen: “That is very high, so it is simply safe. But we actually don't want this in the future. We want to be able to preserve that space for the river.”
What was particularly striking about the maps in The Hague was that there is also "a wide variety" of places in the West of the Netherlands where construction can still take place. Vrugt mentions the – controversial – Gnephoek near Alphen aan den Rijn as an example. The municipality wants to build 5,500 homes on the edge of the polder, and the province of South Holland objected for years to encroachment on the Green Heart. Outgoing Minister Hugo de Jonge of Spatial Planning (CDA) previously made the decision: there will be homes and nature.
Vrugt: “If you look there, you will see that the polder is divided into two parts. A higher part, where the Oude Rijn has deposited a lot of sand over time, and a lower part. Then you can tailor the plan development accordingly: place buildings on the higher part, and water storage in combination with nature on the lower part.”
In fact, the water and soil maps hark back to the settlement patterns of the early inhabitants of the Netherlands, government officials say. The Roman defense line was also on higher sandy grounds along the Rhine, from present-day Katwijk aan Zee to Arnhem. Heinen: “And in other areas our ancestors did not build or built less: weak parts of Holland, or stream valleys in Gelderland, Overijssel, Brabant and Limburg.” Vrugt: “We are actually going back to knowledge that we applied in the Netherlands in the past. That's really true.”

Load Date: March 18, 2024


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")