Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Professor: 'Not as chic if the cabinet were to resign today'; Wim Voermans fears that debate with Parliament will be avoided
De Telegraaf.nl
January 15, 2021 Friday 10:43 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 523 words
Byline: Niels Rigter
Body


The cabinet will resign, as a sign that it is concerned about the failure in the benefits affair. But what difference does such a self-chosen fall actually make? The affected parents will not receive an extra cent and the corona crisis will in any case require a government to take action. And if the cabinet wants to be held accountable, it should certainly not resign today, but properly during the debate in the House of Representatives, according to constitutional law professor Wim Voermans.
If the cabinet resigns today, it will become caretaker. What will change then?
"Few. Although there are a few consequences. In principle, the cabinet can then no longer take controversial or sensitive decisions. It will then make agreements about this with the House of Representatives. When Rutte-II resigned towards the elections, there was a list of 250 controversial topics on which it was no longer allowed to decide.”
And what about the corona policy? An outgoing cabinet will soon decide to introduce a curfew. That's controversial, isn't it?
“That is crisis policy. That must continue. If the dikes break, you also expect an outgoing cabinet to make decisions about dike repairs or evacuations. You could also call these controversial decisions. But a controversial decision by an outgoing cabinet has more to do with legislation that has long-term consequences. As a result, things will now be at a standstill, such as the Environmental Act, because parties want a different law that gives the government more control over construction projects. Quite necessary, with the current housing shortage. Because the cabinet is resigning, you have really lost a few months on that file. At the same time, one should not exaggerate the practical significance of this resignation. There will be elections in March. Normally, the cabinet would actually become paralyzed by mid-February and the House would go into recess.”
What do the parents affected by the benefits affair gain from this?
"Very little. They have still not received the 30,000 euro compensation and some are still receiving bailiffs. On the other hand, a feeling has arisen that the benefits affair is so extensive and the suffering of the parents is so deep that the government can no longer continue as usual. That a symbolic gesture is needed. Resigning is such a gesture.”
But if it doesn't benefit those parents and it has little impact on policy, then the government is fooling us, right?
“You get to a point where things can no longer be explained. That is why it would be a shame and not so chic if the cabinet were to resign today. Next week's debate in Parliament will probably have a different content. While the House still has all kinds of questions, about withholding information, for example. You will then no longer be able to answer the question of how we can prevent this in the future. It would really be the royal way if, during the debate in the House of Representatives, the cabinet would say, after all the questions asked: we find this no longer explainable, we are resigning. Now the government is threatening to answer all questions about the lack of openness. That would be a shame."

Graphic

 
Image, Minister Wopke Hoekstra before the Council of Ministers at the Binnenhof., ANP/HH

Load Date: January 15, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")