Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Hopefully brave whistleblowers and the Senate will save us from this monster: the Environmental Act
de Volkskrant
June 11, 2022 Saturday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Saturday; Page 16
Length: 919 words
Byline: KUSTAW BESSEMS
Body


Are you good at lying? An official was asked this question before he was to update our parliament. "I had to tell you that everything was going well," he reveals in the magazine Domestic Governance. 'But there was no fair-weather message to tell.' His superiors decided that someone else should give the presentation.

Between us and a monster stand some brave whistleblowers and the Senate.

That monster, a colossus of barely comprehensible size, consists of outdated legislation and IT misery that is pushed through with deception and even intimidation. And which could give the already stagnant structure of our country a blow from which we will not recover in the coming decades. But one of the superpowers of this monster is that it puts you to sleep with its name: the Environmental Act. In this way, it has succeeded for years in neutralizing the much-needed debate in politics and the press.

And now it's almost too late, but not quite yet. The Senate may still say something about the date of introduction. And let us fall to our bare knees with gratitude that the Senate exists, because a majority has postponed it until further notice. Senators are looking into the whistleblower reports and are calling on others to come forward as well.

Domestic Governance also features a legislative lawyer who, in addition to his work as a civil servant, is an academic and has published critical articles. He had to 'shut up', his boss snapped at him. "We are working hard to advance the law in turbulent times and you keep sticking a knife in our back," was the accusation.

This characterizes the dominant atmosphere in official The Hague, where process managers who can 'get a law through' have more say than experts who care about whether such a law actually works. Previously, at least two critical reports were withheld from parliament.

But now, at the last minute, the cries for help can no longer be ignored. In addition to the whistleblowers, they come from the Council of State. The chairman of the Administrative Jurisdiction Division and that of the Environmental Chamber gave an unusual interview to Cobouw and called the introduction of the law 'unfortunate at a time of major construction tasks' and 'risky'. Crazy work, that's how I translate it from the RaadvanStates.

Like so many derailed government projects, the Environmental Act was born from an understandable wish. Ironically, it is to make construction, water management and nature conservation easier. The idea is that we will soon no longer have to navigate our way through 1,001 contradictory rules imposed by The Hague, but that citizens, provinces and municipalities will arrange all these matters in a coherent manner.

However, the law dates from the early Rutte years, when market forces and decentralization were seen as a solution for everything, preferably with savings (think: Youth Care). Jos Teunissen, emeritus professor of constitutional and administrative law, delicately pointed out in this newspaper that the now responsible minister De Jonge sings about the bankruptcy of neoliberalism in speeches, while in the meantime he is pushing through a law in which, for example, construction supervision - a government task par excellence - is privatized and outsourced to 'quality assurance'.

Earlier this year, reporter Mac van Dinther found himself in the rural area between Almere and Zeewolde, at an example project of the Environmental Act: 'Thatched farmhouses and retro mansions rub up against ultra-modern bungalows made of black stone or bright yellow corrugated iron. Hobbit-like tiny houses alternate with homes made of shipping containers stacked on top of each other (...). What applies to the houses also applies to the street pattern. In one place there is smooth asphalt, a little further on there are bumpy cobblestones. Sometimes straight, sometimes wriggling like a drunken snake.'

In the annual Accountability Debate on Thursday, Prime Minister Rutte preached one of his newly learned gospels, the one about attention to implementation. To get an impression of the 2 million people in this country who are stuck with implementation organizations, would he like to visit a healthcare cooperative or library? "I'll do it right away," he said. 'I like that very much.'

Yes, stuck people watching, jottem.

In the meantime, there will soon be two sets of complicated rules for a dormer window instead of one and it would be better for stuck citizens to start practicing organizing 'participation processes' now. The National Ombudsman saw the situation, did not even wait for complaints, and already warned.

And the foundation on which this entire structure rests? A tangle of software packages from different suppliers. The government's ICT watchdog states in successive critical opinions that it has not been sufficiently tested. And a large part of the municipalities that are already oversubscribed - especially the smaller ones - say they cannot accommodate this for the time being.

In short, this is really a process that needs rest: first demolish some incorrect principles from that law and in the meantime get the systems in order, let implementers practice and create support. But this is precisely what they have put Hugo de Jonge on: 'There will be no more postponement, no date for go or no go, this is what we are going to do.'

Hopefully again with such a funny photo session, you know, Hugo with a construction helmet on a mountain of stones.
The cries for help can no longer be ignored. In addition to whistleblowers, they now also come from the Council of State

View the original page: page 16

Load Date: June 10, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")