Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=ICT advisory board warns: 'major social risks' when introducing Environmental Act
NRC.nl
October 11, 2022 7:42 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 620 words
Byline: Rik Rutten, Jorit Verkerk
Highlight: If the government introduces the Environmental Act on January 1, 2023, it will likely lead to significant problems for the granting of permits, the IT watchdog warns.
Body


If the government introduces the Environmental Act on January 1, 2023, it will probably lead to significant problems for the granting of permits, such as delays in construction projects. The government's ICT watchdog, the ICT Assessment Advisory Board, warns of "social risks" if Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Order, CDA) sticks to the implementation date.
The advice published on Tuesday is yet another alarm signal about the Environmental Act, which was devised twelve years ago to simplify spatial planning and related procedures and permits. This is a major revision of the law, which has been postponed time and time again in recent years. The Senate, which is the last to agree to the introduction, has previously stated that approval depends on the ICT advice that has now been issued.
The Advisory Board does not want to burn itself with the question of whether postponement is inevitable: that is "a difficult dilemma". But the report is unrelenting: if the government wants to opt for introduction in 2023 at all costs, it must get to work quickly to "limit social risks".
Delay in housing construction
The fear is that the granting of permits could come to a standstill if the systems do not work properly. For example, Neprom, the umbrella organization of project developers, recently called it "irresponsible" to introduce the law on January 1. Builders fear that housing construction will not be implemented smoothly due to the new system.
The suppliers of the software also have doubts. And civil servants also appear concerned about the introduction: a poll by I&O Research and civil servants' trade magazine Binnenlands Bestuur in September showed that seven in ten municipal civil servants hope for a new postponement.
The Advisory Board therefore writes that the sum of problems may also lead to "the conclusion that the social risks of the Environmental Act coming into force on or shortly after 1 January 2023 are too great". In that case, according to the council, it is obvious that the cabinet will take a lot of time to reconsider the law. It may then take years before the Environmental Act is fully implemented.
Also read this article: Ministry of the Interior suppressed criticism of the Environmental Act
Problematic digital system
The major stumbling block is the digital system on which the Environmental Act must run. This Digital System Environmental Act (DSO) has been causing problems in design and testing for a long time.
The Advisory Board has issued extremely critical advice about the DSO several times in recent years. Since the last advisory report, there has still not been sufficient testing and the tests that have been carried out have been carried out "with insufficient quality", the new report states. For example, according to the Advisory Board, insufficient tests were carried out that included the entire permit process from start to finish. “As a result, the program cannot sufficiently demonstrate the stability, reliability and technical operation of DSO as of January 1, 2023.”
The Advisory Board also notes that many municipalities have now announced that they are using alternative solutions, whereby they want to temporarily use the old and the new method of granting permits simultaneously in order to prevent problems. This should prevent the systems from breaking down, but "at the expense of user-friendliness, understandability and usability," according to the council. Moreover, it is unclear whether permits drawn up in this way are legally valid.
The Senate will vote on the Environmental Act in the coming weeks.
Also read this report: The village of Oranje is still in trouble with the bungalow park

Load Date: October 11, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")