Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Letters submitted: Stop complaining, look for positive news
De Volkskrant.nl
April 12, 2021 Monday 05:21 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1013 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


  The reader letters sent in on Tuesday, April 13.
Letter of the day: complaining
We Dutch are quite adept at complaining about everything. About sensible and nonsensical matters. Since corona has swept our world, we obviously have more reason than ever to complain. But things have gotten out of hand lately. All complaining leads to loads of negative news, feeds complainers, breeds new complainers and does not improve many people's moods.
Unfortunately, I also read a lot of negative news in the Volkskrant. If I remember correctly, your newspaper started writing a daily positive news article at some point during the 2008 economic crisis. How wonderful it would be if there were more positive news articles in the newspaper. Today, for example, the article about Postillion hotels made me happy.
There is still a lot to be positive about. The government has spent billions in support and is far from done with this. Many benefit from this, but complainants still dominate the reporting. Don't get me wrong, I am absolutely not downplaying the terrible suffering that affects many.
But there are also many who are doing well as a result of the support, or because their sector is doing well during/thanks to the corona crisis - and these are not just giants such as Albert Heijn and Bol.com.
We have the lowest unemployment rate compared to our neighboring countries, and bankruptcies do not predominate either. Let it inspire you to look for positive news, which we all desperately need.
Ellen de Graaf
Relaxations
Relaxations postponed, I was looking forward to a weekend away on April 25 and of course eating out on the terrace, having a glass of wine, etc. I was angry, indignant. Now, after almost a year of seeing almost no one and we have adhered well to the measures, I am having fun again.
But looking and reading the newspaper, I changed my opinion. I bow deeply to healthcare, working extra hard, working extra night shifts, with very little time off. Hats off and thank you very much for taking such good care of us, the Netherlands.
And the whole of the Netherlands, let's hold on a little longer, so that healthcare can finally have a holiday again this summer.
Emmy de Graaff
Peter de Waard
Completely justified, the praise that Arnon Grunberg pays to Peter de Waard for ten years and more than 2,000 times in the column. I too am a fan. Peter de Waard is a schoolmaster who writes with love and at the same time awe for his students.
But I also have to deeply appreciate his delayed obituaries of deceased compatriots who were in some way important to the Netherlands. He has also built up a great reputation in this area. Whether I am one of the contenders is uncertain. But if the hereafter has a decent reading table, then I will frequent it with interest for a few months in due course.
Ton Kohlbeck
Arnon Grunberg
How nice for De Volkskrant that Arnon Grunberg really knows everything. If a real journalist can't be found, all it takes is one phone call to get him back writing about anything. Can that ever stop? Thank you in advance.
Marise Clason
Columnists
Columnists may provide their own opinions in their contributions. The reader can ignore the columns if he or she does not like the message. However, things will be different if the majority of columnists repeat the same tune. This has been the case for several weeks.
It is now clear that many of the Volkskrant columnists are against Rutte. It would benefit the newspaper if there was more variety in the topics of the columns.
Frans van den Berg
Digital newspaper
On Sunday I read the article about Gouda and the water level on my mobile. I had already partially finished the paper newspaper. I read the paper newspaper in the homely atmosphere. I keep some articles, such as overview articles or if I want to remember the author of a 'statement'. For me, the digital version plays a role in filling waiting times and provides current news via push messages.
Only on Sunday did I notice that the digital version is not just a copy of the paper version. First I saw the animated graph about sea level rise and then something else amazing. The article provides links to background information and resources. A strong point in times of populism and fake news.
The digital newspaper, with its use of modern digital options, is a mature addition to the paper version.
Hans van der Rijst
environmental code
Recently, former minister Cees Veerman and emeritus professor Louise Vet argued in this newspaper for a delta plan for agriculture, which should determine the limits for ammonia and nitrogen emissions in certain areas.
Groundbreaking for climate policy. But such a plan can only be implemented if there is a legal basis for it in addition to sufficient financial scope. If its introduction goes ahead, it will become the Environmental Act from 1 January 2022. But unfortunately for the climate goals, the law is not designed for that.
This deficiency is yet another objection to the Environmental Act. More and more scientists and planners are speaking out against it, and half of the municipalities do not want it. The law has no national control function, shifts national spatial issues to lower levels of government, limits participation opportunities, does not deliver on the promised budget neutrality, is at odds with legal certainty and is built around an IT system that has not wanted to work properly for years and that will cost billions.
The introduction of the law has been postponed several times since 2016, but after years of preparation, prestige counts; the Environmental Act is being pushed through despite all objections.
How many more objections are needed? Or will prestige remain more important than responsible policy even after Rutte III?
Herman Weelink
 <LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>3e56515-1618246699.json</LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>

Load Date: April 12, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")