Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Home office; Loft2go makes living in vacant business premises possible
The Telegraph
June 25, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: Residential newspaper; Page 27
Length: 663 words
Body


Marie-Claire Aarts is looking for an office. Not only to work in, but also to live in. She had a temporary place in the center of Amsterdam, but she had to leave because it could still be rented out as business space. That old location housed the first version of her Loft2go concept: a piece of furniture that is easy to place in a large space such as an office and just as easy to disconnect when the user moves.
They are a bathroom and a kitchen, made of dark wood, inspired by the many travels through Asia that the lawyer and designer made. If you install these types of eye-catchers, it will not be noticeable that you are under a suspended ceiling or that walls are bare or pipes are not properly concealed, she says.
        Aarts is a woman with a mission. She believes that city residents do not want to be stuck in one place for very long. And that how someone wants to live is not only related to their stage of life, but also to what they are doing at that moment. She thinks that there is increasing demand for places where you can combine living and working. And all those vacant square meters of office space would be ideal for that.
        But moving into an office as a home is not easy. There are many policy and legal pitfalls. For example, many commercial real estate owners have no interest in office residents at all. Different rules apply to renting a home than to vacant business premises. In the latter form, landlords work with temporary contracts, something that normally hardly happens. Office landlords are afraid that they will not be able to get residents out after the lease expires because of rent protection, says Aarts. But the regular rental protection rules do not apply to Vacancy Act rentals. It would be a breakthrough if there was some kind of intermediate form. Although a tenant rents a place temporarily, he does enjoy rental protection for that period.
        At the Provada real estate fair, Aarts addressed Minister Blok about it, who will soon come up with a new Environmental Act. One of the points is that the procedure for temporary change of destination may soon no longer take longer than eight weeks. Views from local residents may only be taken into account to a limited extent. This in turn means that no complicated procedures need to be followed for converting offices into homes.
        In Amsterdam, where Aarts is looking for a new space for the model home, the municipality is already encouraging living in offices by, for example, ensuring that a building can quickly change its destination. But that does not mean that you will find something quickly, according to the lawyer. Because the prices that commercial real estate owners charge for their square meters are still far too high.
        She already has a waiting list of tenants for her Urban Pop Up concept who are willing to pay market-based rent. Vacant rental is not anti-squatting, it concerns regular rental contracts, with the deviating feature that there is a notice period of six months. These would-be office residents do not find it a problem that a lease contract would only last five or ten years, she says.
        She would ideally like to create approximately ten loft homes with these people on a floor of a thousand square meters, of course with the take-away bathroom and kitchen from Loft2Go. Everyone then takes their own piece and divides it as they see fit. The result is 'industrial lofts' as you always see in films in the Meatpacking District in New York, Aarts describes.
        In the meantime, she is still looking for a place where she can set up her own Loft2Go. It is now on two pallets in storage. When the furniture is back in place, property owners and other interested parties can see what such an office home will look like.

Load Date: June 24, 2014


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")