Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Done with nuisance engine noise: 'We just leave the house when the weather is nice'; Petition on behalf of seventy municipalities to Parliament because of noise
De Telegraaf.nl
September 7, 2022 Wednesday 6:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 558 words
Byline: Koen van Eijk and Martijn Schoolenberg
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


Environmental zones where only silent vehicles are allowed. Forbidden for roaring engines. Seventy municipalities and about a hundred residents' groups are working together to reduce motorcycle noise.
In the Limburg hills, along the edge of the dunes and over picturesque dikes, a line of motorcycles passes by in good weather. “These are exactly those roads that used to be marked green by the ANWB: routes that you have to drive again,” says chairman Tony Hardenberg of the Dutch Federation of Environmental Noise Motor Vehicles (Nefom).
On Tuesday, Nefom presented a petition to the House of Representatives against the nuisance caused by motorcycles, according to the Nefom on behalf of more than a hundred residents' groups. At the same time, the municipalities of Bergen and Bloemendaal, on behalf of seventy municipalities, presented a similar petition to the standing parliamentary committee for Infrastructure and Water Management.
The municipality of Krimpenerwaard also supports the petition, although nothing has been formally signed yet. Residents of Lekkerkerk, part of Krimpenerwaard, recognize the problem. Their homes on Opperduit are located directly on the continuous dike along the Lek. Anyone driving out of Lekkerkerk will already see a sign stating that the maximum speed may be increased from 50 to 60.
“It's really not normal,” sighs Laurette van Seters, who lives on the corner of the dike. “The engines immediately accelerate so incredibly fast there. We have a roof terrace, where we sit when the weather is nice. But our conversation is regularly drowned out by those motorcyclists. There are often large groups, so the noise continues.”
She's completely done with it. “When we moved here, we never expected this. It is a beautiful place overlooking the water. Nowadays, when it's a nice summer day, we just go away, to a recreational area for example.”
In the petitions, Nefom and the municipalities involved ask to include environmental zoning for noise emissions in the new Environmental Act. Nefom chairman Hardenberg: “Compare it with environmental zones in which dirty diesels are prohibited.”
Firecracker
Councilor Erik Bekkering van Bergen (NH): “A camera records the license plates. So easy to enforce.” The only means that municipalities currently have to keep out noisy motorcycles is to close roads. Bekkering: “Should I close the road between Egmond and Bergen? Then you dupe so many people, that's just not possible.”
The Lekkerkerkse Annuska is also disappointed with the motorcyclists. “There are two problems here: they accelerate too hard and they often have a banging pipe. Then you think you can quietly enjoy the nice weather in the garden and suddenly you hear a huge noise.” Annuska finds it 'incomprehensible'. “Why don't we give each other some rest,” she asks.
The Motorcyclists' Action Group (MAG) is critical of the accusations. “It is pretended that almost all motorcyclists are bad,” says spokesperson Hugo Pinksterboer. “While recent TNO research has shown that only 5 percent of motorcyclists drive too loudly.”
Environment
The MAG recognizes that things can be better. Pentecoster: “That is why we have started a national campaign in which we call on motorcyclists to take the environment into account.”
The organization is also in favor of additional measures. “We would like it if there were speed cameras that check for noise, but they are not there yet,” says Pentecoster.

Load Date: September 7, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")