Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Cows or houses? Building on pasture splits a Frisian mound village
De Volkskrant.nl
January 4, 2021 Monday 05:52 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1936 words
Byline: Pieter Hotse Smit
Body


  Governments are focusing on agricultural land even more than before to satisfy their 'land hunger'. In the Frisian town of Mantgum, less than one and a half hectares of meadow is the scene of the battle. “I fear war in every village, just like here.”
Next to the light poles of the Mantgumer Tennis Club is a boggy piece of grassland. The cows that graze there in the warmer months are kept in stables. If the construction plans of a group of fellow villagers go ahead, the cows in the meadow will have to make way for twelve luxury homes forever.
“No houses here, just COWS!” was the text on a flat cart that the Mantgumer farmer in question placed on “his” leased piece of land this summer. He does not want to talk to the Volkskrant, now that he is in a legal dispute with the municipal landowner about his lease agreement that has lasted more than twenty years.
In the Frisian terp village of Mantgum you see how a meadow of no more than one and a half hectares can suddenly divide a close-knit community of less than twelve hundred inhabitants. Because the municipality of Leeuwarden, which Mantgum merged with in 2018, suddenly wants housing on the agricultural plot.
The line of sight to the mound, which according to the opponents will be lost with the new construction, can be seen in the photo that the Leeuwarder Courant printed in August of the farmer's protest scene. Behind the tractor with trailer and sign is the church tower of the Frisian terp village. In between is visible the farmhouse of Herbert Schaap and his wife, who strongly support the farmer.
Just like fellow villager Nynke-Rixt Jukema, who has joined Schaap's farmhouse for a conversation. As an architect, Jukema sees that in more places in Friesland the characteristic countryside is being sacrificed for stone. The 'betrayal' surrounding her own village does not only upset her because it is another attack on the countryside. It especially affects her because it goes against many municipal and provincial intentions not to further pollute the view of the old landscape.
“Because people with money and connections want something, it happens anyway,” she says. 'We are now being dismissed as the whiners who are against everything. What kind of society do we live in then?'
Future land claims
The battle for the land at Mantgum is not an isolated event. This is taking place in several places in the Netherlands and will probably become more intense in the coming years. Especially now that agricultural land is being looked to even more closely to satisfy administrative 'land hunger'. After all, the rest has already been built on or protected.
In already hectic times around the farm, the question is how redistribution can be shaped peacefully. And what does this mean for Dutch export agriculture as we know it today?
Between 1950 and 2015, more than 500 thousand hectares of agricultural land were withdrawn from the sector, according to figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS): 2.3 million hectares became 1.8 million. Agriculture went from three-quarters of the land area of ​​the Netherlands to less than two-thirds. In the peak period from 1996 onwards, farmers gave up a piece of land as large as the area reclaimed from the sea in the last century: the Wieringermeer, Eastern Flevoland and the Noordoostpolder.
Add up all future land claims and another half million hectares of land will be needed by 2050 to realize all the plans. With nature and sustainable energy as the most important substitutes.
“It's time for all farmers to wake up!”, came the latest announcement of farmers' protests by Farmers Defense Force (FDF), the agitating wing among the angry farmers. 'This cabinet has only one goal: Land grabbing! Everything must make way for heavy industry, asphalt and concrete. Pollution.' To add: 'We-don't yield! We fight for our land. Our countryside.”
It is not only the more radical FDF farmers who suspect land hunger behind the government's plans to buy out livestock farmers because of nitrogen. More moderate farmers also see the new nitrogen law as another instrument to deprive them of more land. For the largest farmers' organization LTO Netherlands, the land issue is so sensitive in the run-up to the elections that it does not want to comment on it in the media.
Reducing agricultural area
Given the environmental and climate challenges that the livestock-dense Netherlands faces, the outcome will in any case be that agriculture will have to make a concession, according to emeritus professor of rural sociology Jan Douwe van der Ploeg. 'The crux is: should the Netherlands continue to export to the extent it is doing now?' And with three quarters of agricultural production going abroad. His answer: “No.”
Another emeritus professor from Wageningen, Rudy Rabbinge, calls the fact that a shrinkage of agricultural land would be harmful to Landbouw BV Nederland 'a myth'. “We can further increase production with half the agricultural land and at half the costs,” he is firmly convinced. 'Provided the best soils are retained for agriculture, high-quality products are chosen, but strict environmental requirements are also met.'
Historical figures show that it is possible: the decline in agricultural land in the last century was accompanied by increased production. Rabbinge does not advocate that the agricultural land that has been sacrificed can be blindly handed over to project developers. He proposes a large-scale reparcelling of the rural area. 'Troubled' agricultural land, on which production is now kept high through trickery and at the expense of the environment and living environment, would then be given a new purpose. Based on clear future choices, such as restoration of the cultural landscape and nature, but also the neat integration of sustainable energy and housing construction.
Taking less suitable agricultural land out of production to make room for other functions does not seem like a bad idea to agricultural expert Hans van Grinsven of the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency. But he doubts whether agricultural production can continue to grow. Due to the environment and biodiversity, more and more limits are being imposed on fertilization and crop protection and these are the necessary ingredients for further increasing production per hectare.
“It will also have to be in harmony with nature on very good grounds,” says Van Grinsven. 'This may conflict with the expectation that production can continue to rise. We need a change in both the production and consumption of our food. We must dare to question the large share of meat and dairy in our daily diet. It is not necessary for our health, but requires a lot of soil and water, and at the same time provides a lot of nitrogen.'
Van der Ploeg agrees and warns against Rabbinge's plan, which, according to him, mainly advocates a separation of agriculture and other functions. 'The Netherlands already has a hand in this: a strip of agriculture here, a strip of nature there and housing in yet another place. It is better to combine those functions in a smart way. If you adapt to local circumstances, this can also provide an exciting change in rural areas.'
He points to the Northern Frisian Forests, where an association with hundreds of farmers and private individuals between Drachten, Leeuwarden and Dokkum manages the farming landscape in harmony with nature and the inhabitants. According to him, it could serve as an example for a future Minister of Space, which is what retiring government advisor Berno Strootman recently advocated. Because Van der Ploeg also feels that the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (VROM), which was closed down in 2010, feels like 'an ungodly loss'.
At this point the experts find each other and receive support from former Minister of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment Pieter Winsemius. In a recent publication in the magazine Vork, Winsemius, together with Rabbinge, points out the painful consequences of the lack of landscape policy. 'It is frightening how the famous Groene Hart has become largely moldy in recent decades due to ribbon development, misplaced distribution centers and greenhouse horticulture.'
Large-scale new construction
The Frisian terp village of Mantgum has not been spared from white mold, as the white new construction from the last century around old village centers is referred to. In the shape of the Amsterdam canal belt, the expansion districts are wedged in a semicircle around the mound.
The residents with new construction plans hope to stretch that belt just a little, with a plan that in their view fits in with the rural character of the old village. With a fruit orchard and houses designed after farm barns on the plot designed as a 'farmyard'.
In the barn of the Frisian farm in Mantgum, which has been converted into a living room, Schaap serves coffee with home-baked gingerbread. With architect Jukema, herself a farmer's daughter, he explains once again why the farmers' interests are also the residents' interests in this case. That there is more at stake than his view.
Schaap believes that fellow residents and the municipality have been fooled with the 'slick plans' and 'misleading information'. He is particularly angry that they do not fit in with the village vision, which states that there is a need for starter and senior homes. Preferably to be placed within the current buildings of Mantgum.
Schaap: 'If the municipality, as a lessor, can simply allow agricultural land to be cultivated, why shouldn't any farmer be allowed to do the same?' Jukema expects a precedent: 'I fear war in every village, just like here.'
Councilor Hein de Haan of the municipality of Leeuwarden emphasizes that the same expansion requests come from every village, but that nine out of ten times he says no. “The time for large-scale new construction in village centers is really over,” he says. 'Mantgum is an exception because it is a village with a station and a school. Small-scale expansion, organized by the residents, increases the quality of life and finally gets the housing market moving.'
For Schaap and Jukema, it shows what you get when 'the guardian of the public interest' withdraws from plan development and becomes 'blinded' by this so-called collective private commissioning (CPO) - official language for a construction initiative from the residents themselves. A way of working in the spirit of the new Environmental Act, which will come into effect from 2022, and makes planners themselves responsible for 'support'.
“If the government does not take control and leaves plan development to private individuals,” says Schaap, “then in a small village like Mantgum, residents with conflicting interests will find themselves diametrically opposed to each other.”
The initiators of the CPO building plans say they understand the concerns of the opponents, but also believe that they have done enough to address them and point out that the village representation - the Doarpsmienskip - agrees with the plans. Councilor De Haan thinks the same way and has few good words for the fierce resistance of the opponents. “Just because we don't agree with them doesn't mean we don't listen.”
He calls the project a textbook example of a bottom-up construction approach, where, in his words, the municipality facilitates and does not organize. “Now that we are moving towards decision-making, I understand that the temperature is rising somewhat,” says the councilor. “But they have had plenty of opportunities to contribute ideas.”
And the farmer? Should he just give up his fertile land after more than twenty years of lease? “That is the disadvantage of such a plan,” De Haan acknowledges. “It is the price you pay in the battle for space.”

Load Date: January 4, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")