Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Readers' letters: You are definitely not untouchable on your e-bike
De Volkskrant.nl
April 14, 2021 Wednesday 02:37 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 758 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


  Unfortunately, the sharp increase in the number of accidents involving e-bikers does not surprise me. Just like cyclists or pedestrians who use a mobile phone, you can tell that many people are using it from a distance by looking at their body language. This differs greatly from that of ordinary cyclists, they radiate something like: look at me riding like a king or queen. Light paddle strokes, much too high speed for their real place on the bike track. It is a kind of implicit pride that takes possession of people, imagining themselves untouchable.
And that's why things quickly go wrong. I advocate that people think more carefully before handing over their good old bicycle and their common sense to the e-bike seller, who likes nothing more than to make people dependent on his product. From the point of view of road safety and public health, there should be a ban or hefty fine on idiotic trade-in premiums when purchasing e-bikes and preferably also a ban or at least a large leaflet text when advertising them, such as with smoking. E-biking is more dangerous than you think.

tF.M. Bean
Mayors
The government's erring corona policy is detrimental to support among the population. But what is really shocking is the permanent undermining of authority by mayors, at least those of the big cities, because you don't hear others. It has been said for weeks that they cannot enforce the law because 'their limit has been exhausted'.
The already critical citizen only needs half a word from the mayors and this way you will never get them back in line. It fuels divisions among the population and presents the cabinet with an almost impossible task to maintain some form of regulation.
However much the desire for relaxation is understandable, it is unnecessary for this mutiny to be fought out in the open on media and talk shows. It is time to close the ranks of government.

tRonald Stevens
Competition
Can messages about the international vaccination competition be placed on the sports page from now on to improve clarity?

tPeter de Leeuw
Calculate
There was once a fuss that Schiphol was not allowed to expand because it would cause unacceptable noise pollution. But fortunately, a new calculation method for this nuisance was introduced just in time, causing it to disappear like snow in the sun.
Last week, the Netherlands dangled somewhat at the bottom of the European list of numbers of vaccinations. But thanks to a new calculation method, we are now quite ahead of the pack. I am very curious about the content of these calculation methods, but I fear that it is not much more than 1 + 1 = 3.

tMichael Fork
Politics versus citizen
National politicians must take people's problems seriously and a new welfare economy must be created. The same Volkskrant states that Groningen wants to build an industrial solar park in an area suitable for organic agriculture, nature and recreation. This illustrates that national change is not possible without a change in local governance. This is not just about energy transition, but about the balance between many interests. Local governments are under financial pressure. Then the monetary economy often calls the shots in spatial decisions.
An important factor is the difference in power. (Prior) knowledge and resources give local government, industry and project developers a major advantage over the citizen. They must inform, organize and speak out in their spare time. The new Environmental Act does not address this power problem. In the meantime, I'm holding my breath.

tChristine Sijbesma
Politics versus citizen (2)
Erik Schoppen's article is one big indictment of the cold disinterest of politicians in their voters. With sustainable generation of electricity as a respectable goal, big money, subsidy options and investors play a leading role and the interests of citizens and nature in Groningen are neglected. Elsewhere in the country things are not much better. The shocking analogy with the message in the book Phantom Growth and the recent TV broadcast Scheefgroei in de polder speaks volumes.

tRob Riedijk
Max Pam
Perhaps Mr. Pam should put himself in the shoes of someone younger. He is angry about the delay of his second (!) vaccine and blames it on logistical inability. Isn't the goal to protect more people sooner? We have all been inside for a year, Mr. Pam is lucky that he received initial protection so early.

tHidde de Vries
 <LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>c3e5e60-1618408847.json</LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>

Load Date: April 14, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")