Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Minister: only use power at the last minute
The Telegraph
April 23, 2022 Saturday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 37
Length: 289 words
Body


Minister Hugo de Jonge says in a response that he first wants to make agreements with provinces about their share in the housing construction task. Only when things really go wrong does he want to resort to instruments to enforce housing development. "Where necessary, I am prepared to use my authority, but this must be done carefully and after the other intervention options have been exhausted."
The minister wants to reach an 'indicative target' with provinces before June 1 about the numbers and types of homes. “Provinces then translate these agreements to municipalities. A definitive target must be in place by October 1 and the regional housing deals will be concluded in the fourth quarter."
The goal is to achieve 900,000 new homes by the end of 2030, by accelerating housing construction to 100,000 new homes per year. De Jonge: “The agreements are not without obligation. We monitor progress and agree on how we will make adjustments if progress stalls, via an intervention ladder that does as much justice as possible to the division of responsibilities between the government, provinces and municipalities." In short, the policy principle 'decentralization, unless' remains in place.
De Jonge says he will show his teeth if necessary. "Sometimes extra guidance and perseverance is needed, for example to make a decision if there is an impasse over a location. This is certainly possible to some extent via the Spatial Planning Act and the Environmental Act. But the legal instruments are the final step on the ladder. Speed ​​is paramount."
According to him, the Public Housing Management Act is necessary after all. "We must further fill the toolbox with instruments that are necessary to further improve the possibilities for directing."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 22, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")