Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ministry was too rosy about the Environmental Act
NRC.nl
August 8, 2022 7:16 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 731 words
Byline: Rik Rutten
Highlight: Minister Hugo de Jonge incorrectly informed the Senate about the progress of the Environmental Act, minutes show.
Body


Anyone who has always wondered how ministers and civil servants sometimes misinform the Senate and House of Representatives would do well to dig through the hundred pages of minutes that the Ministry of the Interior released on Friday about the Environment Act. A ministry that misinforms parliament is a common occurrence. But it is not often written in black and white.
“It is not our intention at all to confuse or misinform the world, it is just that these parliamentary questions are under high pressure and pass through many hands,” a ministry official explained. “Well, sometimes [something] is sent and when you read it afterwards you think: I would have written it down differently.”
It is not the first time that things have gone wrong with the Environmental Act, which in recent years has grown from a dream law to simplify spatial planning into a political plague. The law has now been introduced three times in two years. In June it was announced that the top officials of the Ministry of the Interior had to accept criticism of the law. And now it also appears that the Senate has been misinformed.
Digital system not yet finished
At the beginning of May, Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning, CDA), whose fate it is that the Environment Act is in his portfolio, had written to the Senate that the digital basis for the law had been "delivered according to plan". That was important, because it marked the beginning of the 'stabilization period' that was so important for the software builders, during which they could test for a number of months without any new adjustments being made.
There was only one problem with De Jonge's reassuring words: the digital system was not yet finished. Everything was still being tinkered with, one of the software builders noted four days after De Jonge's letter in a Zoom meeting with the ministry, only to then conclude "that the stabilization period is not as long as is everywhere suggested" by the minister. . And also: “The Senate and House of Representatives do not know this.”
Yes, an official agreed, that was correct.
The conversation between the officials and the software builders was internal, just like previous and later meetings. The fact that the minutes have now been made public is thanks to Domestic Management, the trade journal for civil servants and administrators, which requested the content of the conversations via the Open Government Act (Woo). Only the names of the participants have been blacked out, as is customary.
Everyone can read how some of the software suppliers immediately felt cheated by De Jonge's nice words: wasn't it clear to everyone that not everything was finished and that testing could not yet take place?
“If you read the latest version of our written answers, it indeed still says rather clumsily that more will be [finished] on April 1, that everything will be finished,” says one official 'Y'. “And then I think: that is of course not entirely the case.”
Afterwards, a spokesperson for the ministry calls the information that the digital system will be completed by April an "unfortunate suggestion".
Also read: The Environmental Act, a 'bureaucratic miracle', is under fire (2019)
Procrastination and fuss
The road to the Environmental Act is paved with delays and hassle. The biggest obstacle, as has been evident for years, is building a digital system to which all municipalities, provinces, government agencies and partnerships must be connected. This system will soon make it possible to apply for a permit to fell a tree, or determine whether a new ring road meets local environmental and noise standards.
The digital system had already been simplified, and no minister is waiting for further delays, which means that any news about errors and delays at the ministry is received as impending doom.
The software suppliers had nothing good to say about De Jonge and his officials. It is disturbing that the ministry pretends to inform everyone well, says one of them in the interview reports, while the same ministry sends out letters that are "so close to the truth" that it is "a bit shocking." Shortly afterwards, the promises about honest information amount to “real bullshit”.
The Senate also does not leave it at that. The GroenLinks faction has now asked for clarification from Minister De Jonge.

Load Date: August 9, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")