Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ministry of Rail and Asphalt
NRC Handelsblad
October 27, 2015 Tuesday


Copyright 2015 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Economics
Length: 755 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan
Body


The Hague. The ball-ball department. Or the ministry where one hole is filled with another. According to a number of MPs, the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment tomorrow and Thursday is mainly about opaque money shifting. New roads are being built with money intended for maintenance of the rail network. Rail projects are financed with money that was reserved for safety.
"It is a big grab bag," says D66 spokesperson Stientje van Veldhoven. "There is an Infrastructure Fund and a Delta Fund. But if it turns out that way, the millions in those funds will be used for completely different purposes than for which they were intended." . 16 million euros from the infrastructure fund will go to the implementation of the new Living Environment Act. And another 39 million to ICT projects."
This 'ball-ball policy' got State Secretary Mansveld into trouble last month because she was unable to indicate how ProRail should finance track maintenance in the coming years. And because there is a threat of a deficit of 475 million euros for the period 2018 and 2028.
But this plays just as well in Minister Schultz's portfolio, say Van Veldhoven and Liesbeth van Tongeren (GroenLinks). “Schultz is good at putting traffic projects forward. But at the expense of maintenance on the road network," says Van Tongeren.
Of the 8.2 billion euros that the department will spend next year, 6.4 billion will go to the Infrastructure Fund and the Delta Fund. The budget documents indeed show that next year a total of 20 million euros from both funds will go to implementation of the Environmental Act, which is separate from this.
"There are so many budget changes that it is hardly possible as a Member of Parliament to monitor what is actually happening," said CDA member Martijn van Helvert. According to him, Mansveld in particular still has a problem with this. "On the parts In the ministry for which she is responsible, absenteeism due to illness is sky-high, I understand. The turnover is enormous. Is the department in order?"
Van Tongeren wants to give Mansveld more breathing space by redistributing the portfolios: "Mansveld is responsible for NS, ProRail, Air France-KLM and the environment. Schultz mainly cuts ribbons at the opening of new highways. She is investing heavily in her Delta Plan. But the safety of the dikes is still not in order. That won't be the case until 2065."
Schultz writes in the budget documents that the ministry will spend 1.5 billion euros annually on new roads until 2028. However, the length of traffic jams will continue to increase in the coming years.
Her intention was to make the average travel time on the highways during rush hour a maximum of one and a half times as long as outside rush hour. But the number of highways where this is practice is decreasing and the number of traffic jams is increasing. According to the minister, this is due to the improving economy and cheaper petrol. But according to Van Tongeren, the number of traffic jams is increasing due to the growth in the number of cars and the use of the hard shoulder as a roadway. "In the event of an incident, it now takes much longer before the police or emergency services arrive on the scene. That encourages traffic jams."
Absenteeism and turnover appear to be sky high. Is the department in order?
It would be State Secretary Mansveld's week, a week in which she had to remain politically afloat in three dossiers: the continuation of the debate on the deplorable situation at ProRail, the presentation of the final report of the parliamentary inquiry committee Fyra and the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. But the debate on ProRail, planned for this afternoon, has been postponed because Mansveld cannot provide all the answers to parliamentary questions for today. At the end of September, the House interrupted Mansveld's argument because there was no need for "a college from the State Secretary written down by civil servants". At the request of the House, Mansveld did send internal documents about ProRail, with the exception of one crucial document, a 'management letter' from the accountant.
The conclusions of the Fyra committee are first discussed in the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers. It will therefore take some time before Mansveld is sure of support in Parliament. "If she continues to deny or pass the buck in the coming weeks, she will have a problem," says Van Veldhoven (D66). "The debate is still ongoing," warns Van Helvert of the CDA. "But important questions have still not been answered."

Graphic

 
Fyra V250 at the Watergraafsmeer shunting yard in Amsterdam East. The parliamentary inquiry committee will present its final report tomorrow afternoon. /

Load Date: October 27, 2015


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")