Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No one benefits from hidden inspection reports; Commentary
NRC.NEXT
February 11, 2020 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 17
Length: 627 words
Body


ABSTRACT
           Spatial planning
COMPLETE TEXT:
The decentralization of spatial interests in the Netherlands is going well! Everyone continues to breathe calmly, the ministry is vigilant and informs the House of Representatives in a timely and correct manner. But that's not how it went, as research by NRC showed. In reality, in the autumn of 2018, the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations had six years of critical research from the Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate (ILT). The report noted quite serious concerns - the spatial planning system was qualified as insufficient 'in points'. But that did not suit the department politically. The inspectorate's management subsequently appeared willing to keep the report out of sight as an 'internal document', as long as it was allowed to publish the conclusions in the annual report.
Only, that was not worth it. Under pressure from the same department, the entire investigation was summarized in a gratuitous, but also lying, sentence that national interests have been 'factually sufficiently' incorporated into local policy. Everyone continues breathing calmly, etc.
But that conclusion cannot reasonably be drawn from the ILT report. Safety, noise pollution, traffic congestion, nature compensation, combating 'clutter', heritage management: local authorities have not been successful enough in taking these into account. And the tragic thing is, anyone who has seen the landscape in the Netherlands change in recent years knows what this is about. The most striking element is the increase in colossal distribution halls, thanks to the internet and online shopping. The pressure is also increasing due to the demand for housing. The country is also on the eve of a new Environmental Act, which is awaited with fear and trembling. This transfers even more national planning tasks to the municipality. After the decentralization of the labor market (Participation Act), healthcare (Social Support Act) and youth care (Youth Act), municipalities fear they will no longer be able to cope.
The hidden ILT report confirms this fear: it already appears that many zoning plans do not take into account national standards for, for example, safety zones or the quality of groundwater. It not only leads to dangerous or annoying situations, but also to loss of quality of life. This puts one of the unique features of the densely populated Netherlands at risk: the quality of open space, which has always been highly regarded internationally. The Netherlands Gesamtkunstwerk thus slides into Mischmaschland, where the distribution boxes stretch out into the horizon in endless swells.
In the meantime, the ILT seems to have suffered the same fate as the WODC and possibly also the Justice and Security Inspectorate. Grinded into political-departmental power politics in which research questions are manipulated, undesirable conclusions are only expressed mutedly or, as here, bluntly withheld. This directly affects parliamentary democracy: the minister no longer fully or correctly informs the House - or is prevented from doing so.
Control by the parliament becomes impossible. The manipulated officials then become whistleblowers, the citizen is left behind, just like parliament. And Minister Raymond Knops (BZK, CDA) is therefore responsible, not only for a failing bureaucracy, but also for a messy landscape. Accountability and explanation are urgently needed.
This not only results in annoying or dangerous situations, but above all there is a threat of a loss of quality of life
In the Commentary, NRC gives its opinion on important news events. The commentators write these articles in consultation with the editor-in-chief.
Link to PDF

Load Date: February 10, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")