Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Not aviation, but residential construction in the Schiphol region is threatened by new noise standards
De Volkskrant.nl
July 6, 2020 Monday 09:24 AM GMT


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 912 words
Byline: Marcel van Lieshout
Body


  Schiphol wants to grow, local residents want to get rid of the nuisance, the housing shortage must be tackled, but building new houses is becoming increasingly difficult: making everyone happy seems impossible. And it will become even more difficult if the new noise standards of State Secretary Stientje van Veldhoven (Environment) are introduced.
Many housing projects in municipalities under the Schiphol flight paths are in danger of becoming impossible to implement. New standards for noise pollution and quality of life, laid down by State Secretary Van Veldhoven in the Noise Supplementary Regulation to the Environmental Act, mean that the construction of tens of thousands of homes in the Schiphol region is encountering major restrictions.
There are now objections from municipalities and provinces, with North Holland in the lead, against the recently published Noise Supplementary Regulation. The previously revealed Aviation Memorandum from Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen (Aviation) is also coming under heavy fire. The core of the criticism: the largest cause of noise pollution, aviation, is not being hindered while the region is virtually 'locked down'.
Unlivable
“We are actually labeled as a kind of unliveable area,” says councilor Robert van Rijn (Housing, VVD) of Aalsmeer, a municipality that has been complaining for years about increasing nuisance from Schiphol and its consequences for housing construction. According to Van Rijn, construction plans for four thousand homes are now at risk. “Project developers are threatening to withdraw.”
Based on Van Veldhoven's new scheme, the quality of life in almost all of Aalsmeer as a result of noise pollution is literally characterized as 'poor' to 'very poor'. Van Rijn's fellow councilor Bart Kabout (Schiphol, CDA): 'We are getting the bill for a problem that Schiphol causes.' Aalsmeer has been insisting for some time that Schiphol should take its place, while Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen is encouraging growth of the wants to allow air traffic.
The growing municipality of Haarlemmermeer has also raised the alarm with the ministers. According to North Holland deputy Jeroen Olthof (Schiphol, PvdA), the cabinet is sending conflicting messages: Schiphol can continue to grow, the housing shortage must be tackled, but regulations make housing construction more difficult. In a letter to Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Housing), Olthof points out that 368 thousand homes are planned in the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region alone.
Olthof wrote that letter as chairman of the BRS, the directors' delegation in the Schiphol Environmental Council. In that council, which also includes residents of the airport, the aviation industry and the environmental movement, parties are finding it increasingly difficult to reach compromises. Directors want air traffic not to get in the way of other activities, local residents want to limit nuisance, and Schiphol wants to be able to continue to grow beyond the currently permitted 500,000 flights per year.
Construction permits
Now it becomes clear once again how difficult it is to reconcile all kinds of wishes. In the new Environmental Act (which will come into effect in 2022), the concept of 'liveability' is the key point when, for example, issuing building permits, and all kinds of environmental nuisance (noise, air pollution) are given more weight. Resident delegations within the Schiphol Environmental Council are happy with this.
In response to parliamentary questions, Minister Ollongren said last week that he would consult with municipalities and the province of North Holland. The objectionable Noise Supplementary Regulation is now available for consultation. Ollongren: 'What is still important now is the elaboration of measurement and calculation rules.' The regulation sets standards for the accumulation of noise pollution, so not only nuisance caused by air traffic. The World Health Organization WHO issued new guidelines in October 2018 to reduce harmful health effects. In large parts of the Netherlands, especially in the Schiphol region, these guidelines are not met.
Buttery soft commitments
“It is of course good that our complaints about noise pollution from aviation are, as it were, officially recognized in Minister Ollongren's regulations,” says Aalsmeer councilor Bart Kabout. 'But then you have to tackle the problem at the source. Schiphol is allowed to continue to grow quietly under all kinds of soft promises about nuisance reduction and we as municipalities can hardly do anything anymore. Go ahead and explain that.”
Councilor Robert van Rijn points out that approximately one third of the total housing construction for the next ten years is planned in the Randstad. The change in standards affects dozens of municipalities located in the area of ​​the so-called noise contours of Schiphol.
'You spend years trying to deliver customized solutions, in consultation with the government: where can you still build and where can you not? Then you eventually reach an agreement and then the government tightens standards that take us completely by surprise and in fact undo all the work. In Aalsmeer it was already the case that housing construction was no longer possible for 71 percent of the territory, now we are going to 100 percent.'
Aalsmeer is one of the municipalities that suffers most from growing air traffic. Since 2015, most air traffic has to be handled via the so-called primary runways (Kaagbaan, Polderbaan) that cause the least inconvenience to local residents. But in proportion, the growth in air traffic has placed an additional burden on the Aalsmeer runway in particular.

Load Date: July 6, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")