Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New standards: construction is no longer allowed here
De Telegraaf.nl
June 23, 2020 Tuesday 5:49 AM GMT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; FRONTPAGE; INTERIOR
Length: 585 words
Byline: Ruben Eg and Yteke de Jong
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


House prices are still going crazy, corona crisis or not. In addition, Schiphol's new noise standards also mean that many of the new construction plans in the Randstad will be cancelled.
Figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics published on Monday show that owner-occupied homes became 8% more expensive in May. The Dutch Association of Real Estate Agents and Appraisers (NVM) recognizes the trend in the CBS figures of continued rising house prices. “The housing market has a major shortage, and the corona crisis has not changed this,” said a spokesperson. From its own figures, the NVM notes that half of the homes sold still sell for more than the asking price.
Fire letter
The impending recession may throw a spanner in the works. Both the Economic Institute of Construction and De Nederlandsche Bank expect a price reduction due to the corona crisis. Last week, an emergency plan was presented for the construction of more than 800,000 homes over the next ten years, but half, approximately 380,000 of these are at risk of being scrapped due to new noise standards around Schiphol, according to a letter from 52 municipalities and four provinces.
The housing market around Schiphol has been overstrained for quite some time, because the municipalities around the airport can hardly build due to the noise of take-offs and landings. These standards were once laid down to partly protect municipalities around Schiphol from themselves. New construction around the airport creates new opponents. But noise standards will be further tightened, according to a plan by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water. He applied the consequences of the new Environmental Act.
Sad
New construction is hardly possible within the new noise standards because the quality of life would then be 'too poor'. This applies not only to new construction close to the airport, such as in the municipality of Haarlemmermeer itself, but also to municipalities further away, such as in Almere. That is one of the major new construction locations for the coming years. “We will discuss this with the ministry. This stricter standard for aviation will soon hinder us in housing construction that is still possible. That standard must be lowered, otherwise I have a gloomy outlook for new construction in large parts of North and South Holland," says deputy Jeroen Olthof of North Holland on behalf of the municipalities and provinces.
The noise standards arise from the new aviation memorandum. This shows that the government wants to develop Schiphol further. “By locking down housing construction around Schiphol, the government is taking the step towards the construction of the airport's Second Kaagbaan Runway. This is necessary to partly facilitate that growth," says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop.
Growth ambition
He assumes that Schiphol will grow to 750,000 flight movements in the coming decades based on the growth ambitions of the government and Schiphol. The councilor is one of the signatories of the letter. Schiphol Airport reports in a response that it has taken note of the letter. The Ministry of Infrastructure states in a response that it will talk to the concerned administrators. “Of course we don't want everything to be closed down,” a spokesperson told De Telegraaf. “We need to add 1 million inhabitants by 2030. But where should they go if we cannot build,” Elkhuizen wonders. “It might be an idea to move some of the airport's runways out to sea.”

Load Date: June 23, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")