Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New bill finally puts the environment first. But the text must be sharper, otherwise enforcement will be difficult
de Volkskrant
February 14, 2024 Wednesday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion; Page 28
Length: 815 words
Byline: SJOERD LOPIK
Body


Ecocide
The Party for the Animals recently submitted a bill to criminalize ecocide. The proposal is intended to add a new offense to the Criminal Code. Under this offense, a prison sentence of up to fifteen years could be imposed if someone causes very extensive environmental damage.

This draft law fits within an international trend. For example, French law has made ecocide a criminal offense since 2021, and many other countries are in the process of legislation. The Party for the Animals' proposal attempts to use this international trend to finally correct two flaws in Dutch environmental criminal law.

Currently, environmental crimes in the Criminal Code can only lead to liability if a risk of damage to human health can be proven. If this is not possible, no punishment can be imposed; not even in cases of enormous environmental damage. The bill would nullify this restriction when it comes to massive environmental damage. By no longer requiring proof of health damage in these cases, environmental criminal law would gain more effectiveness.

Moreover, this would have an important symbolic value. Criminal law is the area of ​​law that can most clearly express social disapproval. The fact that the Criminal Code currently does not recognize the environment as a goal worthy of protection is indicative of an outdated approach to our living environment.

A second shortcoming to which the bill responds is the so-called administrative dependence of environmental criminal law. In practice, this means that companies cannot be punished for damage resulting from behavior that was permitted under an environmental permit. This is a very defensible starting point. Companies must be able to trust that they can carry out activities with impunity if the government has given them permission to do so with a permit.

It can be problematic if the government issues a permit with one hand and then punishes the licensed activity with the other. At the same time, exceptions to this principle should be possible. In practice, permits often prove to be inadequate or outdated. Companies may also discover after issuance that the licensed activity has disastrous environmental consequences. Therefore, in certain cases it should still be possible to impose punishment under strict conditions.

It is very important that it is clear when the justificatory effect of the permit can be broken. The bill describes certain cases of major environmental damage when this is possible, but could have been more specific on this point. The proposed criminalization is quite complicated and contains several vague concepts. For example, the bill sets the goal of responding to 'serious and widespread or serious and long-lasting or irreversible damage to an ecosystem'.

This is an unnecessarily complicated formulation with all kinds of open standards that can be interpreted in different ways. If companies can be held criminally liable for behavior that takes place in accordance with a permit, then it should be more predictable when that can happen. The current proposal creates too much legal uncertainty.

Nevertheless, the bill is a good starting signal for a much-needed discussion about our environmental criminal law. Other developments must also be taken into account during the parliamentary debate. For example, a (provisional) agreement was reached in November for a new European environmental crime directive. This is intended to force EU member states to impose some new environmental criminalizations, including one intended to protect the environment as such.

The treatment can also build on the Environmental Act, which came into effect on January 1, 2024. That law contains some duties of care that can also be enforced if the suspect acted in accordance with a permit. However, these duties of care are so vague that lawyers rightly doubt whether they can lead to effective enforcement. Without tightening, the Party for the Animals' bill runs the same risk.

At a time of ecological crises and social interest in the environment, a parliamentary debate on this issue is inevitable. With the necessary refinements, this proposal could be an important step towards sustainable environmental criminal law.
Sjoerd Lopik is a partner at De Roos Advocaten in Amsterdam and a PhD candidate in the field of environmental criminal law at Leiden University.
The fact that criminal law does not currently recognize the environment as a goal worthy of protection is indicative of the way we deal with our living environment

View the original page: page 28

Graphic

 
Employees of the province of North Brabant are remediating a contaminated drug discharge well at De Brabantse Wal.

Load Date: February 13, 2024


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")