Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Nimby; Finanscope
The Telegraph
June 11, 2021 Friday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 25
Length: 442 words
Body


Finanscope
No fewer than two inventories of housing construction locations in the Netherlands were published this week. The first was from the Economic Institute for Construction on Tuesday, which has inventoried meadows for building in green areas. This offers space for at least 500,000 homes, according to the EIB. The current deficit is approximately 330,000.
The reactions were predictable. Agricultural organization LTO does not want to give up agricultural land, although the EIB's plan only concerns 1.4% of agricultural land. Although 'real nature' is left undisturbed, left-wing MPs and other nature lovers were angry about the cultivation of grassland.
A day later, the government released its own map, with locations for 900,000 homes, both inside and outside built-up areas. Only a third of that, about 300,000, should come in green. However, new homes on former industrial sites, in office buildings or the demolition of old homes is not a quick solution. A large proportion of the projected 900,000 homes will certainly not be available before 2030.
Inner-city construction is complex. These are extremely long processes, if it ever gets that far. Sometimes companies have to be bought out. Anyone who already lives somewhere is not looking for a residential tower on their doorstep. Whatever plan is developed will, at the very least, be delayed or smothered by the not-in-my-backyard syndrome.
A look at the government's list shows that Port-City in Amsterdam has been included in the western port area. This means that hundreds of companies have to be bought out. But the left-wing city council does not want to pay the price, the 'polluters' must leave of their own accord without any compensation. That is not realistic, which means that about twenty years of litigation lies ahead. And so there are many locations on paper where a house or apartment will never appear.
Another reason that the houses will never be built is political sacred cows. What does one ultimately choose? Windmills or homes near Utrecht? The province of North Holland is currently torpedoing almost every expansion of cities and villages in the province because this 'damages' the landscape. Then there is the new Environmental Act, which makes it more difficult to obtain a building permit, the nitrogen problem and the extended objection procedure. The much-desired Minister of Housing must get to work on shortened procedures and more instructions. And he has to take a big bag of money with him to appease the NIMBYs. Otherwise it will remain 900,000 homes on paper.
Yteke de Jong
Building within the city is not a quick solution
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 11, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")