Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Cry for housing construction; Minister does not adapt new Environmental Act
The Telegraph
December 6, 2021 Monday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 19
Length: 400 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Body


Minister does not adapt new Environmental Act
by Yteke de Jong
Amsterdam - Housing construction will become impossible in the Netherlands when the new Environmental Act is introduced next year. Regional and local administrators already sounded the alarm last year, but hardly anything has changed. The noise rules add to a pile of other rules that already make housing construction difficult.
This week the House of Representatives will discuss the housing crisis. 1 million homes must be added by 2030, but large-scale construction plans have not yet been made. Deputy Jeroen Olthof of the province of North Holland says that the construction of 70,000 homes in his region is at stake. He already sounded the alarm last year on behalf of four provinces and 56 municipalities, which have signed up for 380,000 homes. "Nothing has changed in the Environmental Act since we raised the alarm with the minister last year. We are hitting walls at the ministry. This is actually unnecessary regulation. Nothing will change for existing residents, but new construction will become practically impossible."
There are currently separate calculation rules for wind turbines, industry, railways, highways and aviation. These noisemakers will soon be added together in one new sum. The ministry states in a response that it will soon be the municipalities' turn to decide "what is acceptable" with regard to the noise. But it is already difficult to "motivate" construction projects. For example, two weeks ago the Council of State sent the province of Brabant back to the drawing board because a housing plan was insufficiently "motivated". "Better motivation means that municipalities explain this weighing of interests extra well. Additional measures in the environment, for example adapted facades or Quiet places, such as courtyards or parks, can help with motivation," said the Interior Ministry spokesperson.
But according to administrators, it does not even come to the 'adapted facades', says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop. "We have to build for all kinds of groups, but there is a cake of rules regarding nitrogen, sustainability, climate-adaptive construction, nature legislation and, to top it all off, the accumulation of noise regulations in the Environmental Act. We have ended up in a situation where you as a driver have nowhere to go. That accumulation of noise has to be removed."
'We can no longer move forward with new construction'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 5, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")