Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ollongren must postpone the introduction of the Environmental Act again
NRC.nl
May 27, 2021 12:12 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 273 words
Byline: Thomas Borst
Highlight: The ICT systems are not yet "working stably" and that is why outgoing Minister Ollongren is once again postponing the introduction of the Environment Act.
Body


The introduction of the Environmental Act has been postponed again. Outgoing Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs, D66) wrote to the Senate and House of Representatives on Thursday that July 1, 2022 is the intended effective date. According to the minister, the delay is because more time is needed to get the ICT systems "working stably". The law should have come into effect years ago - the House of Representatives has already approved it, the Senate is as good as in agreement.
This was not successful for various reasons. For example, Ollongren writes that not "all parties" are ready for the law, which bundles thousands of legal articles and regulations. Municipalities of large cities: the law is said to be so comprehensive and complicated that major construction projects were in danger of being delayed. Municipalities have recently been able to test run the new system, in which local zoning plans are linked to a national database. The idea behind this was: with digital procedures and options for citizens and companies to arrange a permit themselves.
According to Ollongren, the "minimum" functions of the system must be running on October 1, so that private individuals and companies have time. The cabinet actually wanted the law to come into effect in January or April. The new postponement of the law also has financial consequences for the provinces and municipalities involved. The minister writes to make an inventory of how much extra money this will cost. Previously, consultancy firm KPMG estimated the costs of the Environmental Act at 1.3 to 1.9 million euros for the authorities involved. Municipalities incur the largest costs.
Also read: New construction crisis threatens due to 'unworkable' mega law

Load Date: May 27, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")