Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ollongren prefers to wait, and the House will not accept that
NRC Handelsblad
September 10, 2020 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 13
Length: 746 words
Byline: Rik Rutten
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
Rent
Minister Ollongren's housing policy is causing increasing resistance.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Will things still work out between Kajsa Ollongren (D66) and the House of Representatives? On Tuesday, PVV leader Geert Wilders called the Minister of the Interior an "elitist Minister of Antisocial Affairs" because she continues to refuse to freeze all rents. He received support from a large part of the House: from SP to Denk, from PvdA to FvD: "The minister simply has a different reality," Denk leader Farid Azarkan grumbled. Ollongren, said SP leader Lilian Marijnissen, has "failed terribly".
Ollongren was called to Parliament after the Central Bureau of Statistics calculated at the beginning of this week that rents have not risen that fast in six years. What was she going to do about it? Was she going to do something?
The minister pointed out that the rent increase was not too bad given inflation and called a freeze on all rents far too general a measure. And she warned that landlords will cut back on building and making homes more sustainable if they are not allowed to increase rents. Meanwhile, sources from The Hague leaked that the government wants to reduce the controversial landlord levy, which corporations have paid to the government since 2013, by 200 million euros next year. Housing associations can then use that money to help poor tenants. More good news followed on Thursday: Ollongren wants to accelerate the construction of 51,000 homes with 290 million euros.
Charm offensive
The reactions to this charm offensive were lukewarm. "A cloth for the bleeding", Lilian Marijnissen (SP) and Henk Nijboer (PvdA) sneered about the money for the landlords. According to the opposition, left and right, Ollongren underestimates the problem. "A quarter of the tenants in social rental properties will not be completed at the end of the month," said Nijboer. "That was already the case before the corona crisis, but it has become even worse."
It was Ollongren's umpteenth collision in a short time. The Senate recently adopted a motion of censure, the first since 1875, after refusing to implement an SP motion that also called for a rent freeze. Things have also been simmering in the House of Representatives for some time between Ollongren and the opposition about her housing policy. The criticism: the minister waits, prefers to come up with an investigation rather than a law, and has little political feeling.
These are qualities that earned her praise during her time as a top official at the Ministry of General Affairs, as right-hand man to Prime Minister Mark Rutte. There, Ollongren was seen as someone who could keep an overview among large piles of files, remained calm in times of crisis and who never let her political color (she had already been on the list of candidates for D66 in the House of Representatives elections in 2006) play a role alongside Rutte.
But a civil servant is not yet a director, especially on an issue that divides the government parties as much as housing policy. Although ChristenUnie and CDA now reject the landlord levy, the VVD wants nothing to do with it. When it comes to housing construction, VVD and CDA are again calling for more action from the minister.
Ollongren above all does not want to enforce anything. She prefers to place the initiative for housing construction with municipalities and provinces. Just like last year, she is softening the landlord levy, but abolition is not an option. And at the beginning of the corona crisis, she tried to convince landlords with a "moral appeal" to spare tenants.
Campaign themes
High rents, expensive houses and growing housing shortage are attractive campaign themes for the opposition. That also makes an unpopular minister like Ollongren an electoral risk for the cabinet. Such a "hefty dossier", it was already heard this year in the coalition, "deserves more guidance".
Ollongren's portfolio does not make that easy. The Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is a repository. In addition to the housing dossier, Ollongren was responsible during Rutte III for the burqa ban, the AIVD, privacy, protection of threatened mayors, municipal finances, the Environmental Act ("the largest law revision since 1848"), the financing of political parties, the abolition of the advisory referendum and the fight against fake news and election interference.
Thanks to the latter themes, Ollongren was already a bogeyman at PVV and FvD from her debut as minister. The more she symbolizes the housing crisis, the more she also becomes the target of the rest of the opposition.
Ollongren prefers to place the initiative for housing construction with municipalities and provinces
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Minister Kajsa Ollongren during the vote on a motion of censure in the Senate.
Photo Bart Maat / ANP

Load Date: September 10, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")