Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Our landscape no longer belongs to anyone
de Volkskrant
December 9, 2019 Monday


Copyright 2019 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion and Debate; Page 18
Length: 643 words
Byline: HERMAN WEELINK IS LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT - PLANOLOGIST.
Highlight: Landscape management
Body


The direction is lost in the Dutch landscape, making the clutter unstoppable.

The Dutch landscape is going into chaos. This has now been officially confirmed by the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency ('Planning Agency sounds the alarm', November 16). In the recently published Care for Landscape report, the agency describes in detail what is going wrong in the landscape. Houses, windmills, square boxes, solar parks, the landscape is full of unsightly buildings. Something has to be done.

The Planning Bureau therefore advocates an 'inclusive environmental policy', in which the landscape must be taken into account more than before. The government, provinces and municipalities must work together to achieve this. If the so-called Living Environment Quality Decree, Multiple Use of Space and the European agricultural policy are also taken into account, then everything should work out just fine. That's all wonderful, but will it help? I do not think so.
Ambitions
Because how are we going to arrange this? A legal basis is needed for these types of ambitions. The Planning Bureau refers to the Environmental Act, which is expected to come into effect at the end of 2020. It is a so-called framework law that lays down the rules for decisions about the environment. The government is only involved in Major Projects, the provinces formulate landscape policy and the municipalities then implement it. How will the provinces and municipalities do this? They have complete freedom to do so until 2029.

It is clear that we are not going to stop those boxes and solar parks. A law that will only become effective in 2029 and which will allow all twelve provinces to determine their own environmental visions over the next ten years, which in turn can be implemented at their own discretion by 355 municipalities, will not help against the clutter of the landscape. Moreover, this policy focuses mainly on nature reserves and Special Landscapes. The rest of the 'normal' landscape should not expect much from so much incoherent non-committal.

The landscape once belonged to all of us. In the 1960s, the central government set itself the goal of evenly distributing the scarce space in the Netherlands for the 20 million inhabitants expected in 2000.

The importance of this objective was monitored in the Spatial Planning Act down to the municipal level by an approval process that prevented spatial developments that conflicted with it from top to bottom. However, this policy has been abolished.

When, after the 2008 crisis, space for economic development was considered more important than something vague like 'landscape' and all kinds of environmental requirements began to make the considerations unpleasantly complicated, the government withdrew, the old RO Act was abolished and the control mechanism disappeared.
Baked pears
And now we are left with the baked pears. The landscape no longer belongs to anyone. It is defenseless: it is being attacked on all sides. But instead of issuing advice to return to an effective protective instrument, as we lost our hands with the abolition of the old RO Act, the PBL Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency loses itself in wishful thinking about new landscape criteria, reflections on agricultural policy, quality of life decisions, multiple use of space and sustainability ideals. The powerless call for close cooperation between governments is, however compelling, a painful demonstration of the failure of Dutch environmental policy.

If we do not quickly return to an overarching and effectively controlling national policy for the entire Dutch landscape, despite all the nice words in passionate reports, things will ultimately be ruined.
After the crisis in 2008, the economy was given plenty of space

View the original page: page 18

Graphic

 
Urbanization in North Brabant.

Load Date: December 8, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")