Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Our country deserves better environmental policy
De Volkskrant.nl
August 8, 2021 Sunday 04:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 748 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


  The readers' letters from Monday, August 9.
Letter of the day
In the Volkskrant of August 2. Floortje Smit's column and articles by Marcel van Lieshout (Climate Rules), Marc van Dinther and Pieter Hotse Smit (Organic Farmers) made it clear for the umpteenth time that environmental policy in the Netherlands is completely bankrupt.
It is deeply shameful how the Dutch government keeps trying to avoid its European responsibilities with sneaky cleverness and legal stupidity, and in fact also abandons its own citizens.
With the abolition of the classic Housing, Spatial Planning and Environmental Management in 2010, the choice for 'decentralized, unless' and 'opportunities for economic development' and laws that limit opportunities for participation, the living environment of the Dutch citizen has been completely handed over to the public. free market. This has led to European reprimands, the nitrogen drama, extreme housing shortages, uncontrolled project development, attacks on the residential environment with wind farms, solar farms, distribution boxes and aircraft noise, to the fragmentation of nature and landscape and ultimately to the black hole in which farming has ended up.
And now our national government is about to introduce a controversial Environmental Act that will perpetuate this policy for years to come. How long will the Netherlands tolerate this neoliberal environmental policy? Our country deserves better.
Herman Weelink
Hugo the Younger
What a disappointing, unworthy interview with Hugo de Jonge, de Volkskrant. De Jonge rightly walks away halfway angry, because his interviewers cannot think of any questions other than personal ones about his family and faith. When I read an interview with the minister, I expect clarification from a quality newspaper, that the journalists have read up on the most important decisions of a year and a half of the pandemic and that the newspaper allows the minister to reflect on his decisions. None of this unfortunately. It shows how deeply de Volkskrant has sunk into superficial media logic in which sensation and personalization are leading and not substantive thoroughness.

Erik Hans Klijn
Hugo de Jonge (2)
To stay in sports terms: 3-0 for Hugo de Jonge. Nathalie Huigsloot and Ariejan Korteweg shot into their own goal with their bullying questions and De Jonge scored brilliantly with his answers. How is it possible that two journalists from a renowned newspaper can stoop to Jackal level like this? There was no relevant question. And no, I am not a religious CDA voter, I sit to the left of that.

tMaaike de Rijk
Hugo de Jonge (3)
Intriguing insight into the world of Hugo de Jonge's thoughts. While I firmly believe that pessimism is for losers, I doubt his stoic optimism will get him where he would like to be. His urge to constantly promise more than he can deliver leads to unnecessary misunderstanding and frustration in society. With this attitude, he also thought it was a great idea to take on the leadership of the CDA in addition to his job as corona pope. The Hague is teeming with communications experts. Either Hugo de Jonge is stubborn, or these people do not understand their profession. I can imagine that if Hugo were to adopt an attitude of slightly underpromise and overdeliver, he could change from zero to hero.
Hans Moonen, Utrecht
Hugo de Jonge (4)
It's good that I now know what a true culture lover looks like: Hugo de Jonge having himself photographed in front of his white piano with the sheet music upside down.

tMirjam Sweijd,
Nuns
“As a child I was taught by Dutch nuns in Suriname,” said TV presenter Aldith Hunkar, interviewed in last Friday's newspaper. Is she grateful to these women for dedicating their lives to teaching children far from home? Not really, because she continued, “What were those women doing there?”
The answer to that is not difficult to give. Dutch and other European religious people, more or less on their own, got Suriname's education and healthcare system off the ground, later assisted by Islamic and Hindu schools and institutions. In most of these schools, children from all ethnic groups were mixed together. The selfless efforts of these religious were a blessing not only for education and care, but also for the reasonable success of Surinamese 'multicultural society'. That, dear Aldith, is what those women did there.

tHerman Vuijsje

Load Date: August 8, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")