Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Council members must remain laymen with regular jobs
NRC Handelsblad
March 20, 2018
NH Tuesday


Copyright 2018 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: The Hague; Page 8
Length: 608 words
Byline: Pim van den Dool
Dateline: The Hague.
Body


ABSTRACT
Advice Council members are so busy, says a senior advisory body, that only the 'happy few' have the time and money for it. That has to be different.
The work of councilors has been getting harder for years. Municipalities are becoming larger due to reorganizations and are given more tasks due to decentralization, such as in healthcare. The result: council members spend more and more time on what is considered an additional function. An average of almost 16 hours per week and in municipalities with more than 150,000 inhabitants as much as 24 hours, according to the National Council Member Survey last year.
This must change, says the Council for Public Administration in the advice For the public interest that will be published this Tuesday. The difficulty it takes to combine council membership with work and private life constitutes a barrier for "many people to become politically active", according to the council, which notes that many political parties had difficulty finding enough suitable candidates for these municipal elections. .
To make it as a councilor you need time and money. Last year's council member survey showed that only more than half have a job or education in addition to council membership. "This way it becomes something for the happy few," notes Han Polman, chairman of the Council for Public Administration and King's Commissioner in Zeeland.
The Council advises that council membership may take 8 to 12 hours per week. Polman: "We think it is important that the council remains a lay board, that council members have both feet in society."
Compensation increased
At the same time, compensation must be increased - again to make council membership more attractive. The Council proposes to increase the compensation for councilors of small municipalities up to 24,000 inhabitants.
According to the Council, the difference between councilors in small and large municipalities is now too great: in municipalities up to 8,000 inhabitants, a councilor receives 250 euros per month (almost 5 euros per hour), in municipalities of 150,000 inhabitants more than 1,900 per month (almost 20 euros per hour). Not logical, according to Polman. "In small municipalities, issues are raised that require the same level of involvement as in large ones."
The remuneration for council members in municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants should be gradually reduced, the council advises - in line with the aim of spending less time on this.
More support
But how are these extremely busy council members supposed to spend less time on their duties? The council writes that municipalities must invest more in the clerk's office and the local audit office to support council members.
Council members should also work differently, Polman believes. "Instead of wanting to participate in every detail, as a councilor it is better to give the board certain values." A councilor does not have to worry about the number of FTEs that the municipality makes available for people with disabilities. "You you can also ask yourself: what do we expect from employers in our municipality?"
Polman acknowledges that a lot will come to municipalities in the coming years, such as the Environmental Act: new regulations on spatial planning from 2021. But, he says: "This will create more coherence between environmental policy and the issuing of permits. That should make the work easier."
The Council for Public Administration wrote the advice on behalf of the previous Minister of the Interior Ronald Plasterk (PvdA). Successor Kajsa Ollongren (D66) will come up with an 'action plan' for local democracy before the summer, including on the remuneration of council members.
Advice 1: Do not spend more than 8 to 12 hours per week working as a councilor. Don't become an expert.
Advice 2: Higher compensation for councilors in small municipalities, lower in large ones

Load Date: March 28, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")