Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Rotterdam is fighting fast food
The Telegraph
December 6, 2019 Friday
Rotterdam


Copyright 2019 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 14
Length: 438 words
Byline: Maarten Ritman
Body


by Maarten Ritman
ROTTERDAM - No more chip shops at schools and the number of fast food outlets in Rotterdam has been significantly reduced, that is the municipal response to too many fat Rotterdammers.
Health councilor Sven de Langen has started his 'hamburger war'. The many fast food outlets in the city have been a thorn in his side for some time; the countless millions that the municipality pumps into municipal health programs are a waste of money as long as it is easier to eat unhealthy than healthy, he says.
“It is easier to get a hamburger in the center than an apple,” sighs De Langen. He promises 'not to ban all fast food'. “But it has to be in proportion, and it is not now.”
In the city center, visitors stumble over McDonald's, Burger Kings and similar businesses, and he wants to get rid of that. “On some streets you have eight of those kinds of things within five hundred meters, but not all of them should remain. One or two is a healthier ratio.”
He bases his findings on research by Erasmus MC. Between 2004 and 2018, the number of fast food establishments increased sharply, while establishments with fresh, healthy food have disappeared en masse. Especially in poor neighborhoods, it is much easier to get a fatty bite than a healthy sandwich.
“Half of all adults are overweight,” says De Langen. “That is alarming. If half of all Rotterdam residents carry a knife, then the mayor will be in all states and the world will be too small. But it is the same health emergency.”
That is why, at the request of the council, he has investigated what options the municipality has to balance the supply. The council was informed by letter about all possible measures.
“In the short term we cannot do much, except arrange the areas that are free of pitches. This prevents chip stalls from being located next to schools where students go to the chip shop.”
To reduce the number of fast food chains, he has to rely on the yet-to-be introduced environmental law. “We can then start managing the numbers.” They must be phased out.
As a councilor, he already opposed the aggressive marketing of fast food chains, which 'supposedly give you a choice'. “I feel a bit like David against Goliath, I am throwing millions of euros for prevention on behalf of the municipality. But I have to fight these multinationals differently.”
De Langen has previously been accused of ignoring employment for Rotterdam residents by wanting to reduce the number of chains. “Do you think those companies are concerned about that? There are parties that make money from making Rotterdam residents fatter.”

Load Date: December 5, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")