Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Senate approves: Environmental law will finally come into effect in 2024
de Volkskrant
March 15, 2023 Wednesday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 10
Length: 480 words
Byline: NATALIE RIGHTON
Highlight: The Senate approved 'the largest legislative operation since the Second World War' on Tuesday. The introduction of the so-called Environmental Act has already been postponed many times, but now the decision has really been made: the law will come into effect on January 1, 2024.
Body


The Environmental Act will have far-reaching consequences for anyone who ever wants to build a shed, dormer window or house. The law bundles more than 150 laws and regulations in the field of spatial planning, which should make applying for a building permit easier and faster.

In this way, many unnecessary rules about water, air, soil, nature and buildings are being deleted. The intention is that the waiting time for a permit will increase from 26 to 8 weeks.

After years of pushing and pulling, the law was already adopted by the Senate in 2016, but its introduction has been postponed several times since then. Partly because of the complexity of the law and the IT problems that the new digital counter for environmental permits appeared to have to deal with. A majority of the Senate now believes that these problems can be surmounted.

During a roll-call vote on Tuesday, 41 senators ultimately voted in favor and 29 against the introduction of the Environmental Act as of January 1, 2024. The major supporters - coalition parties VVD, CDA, D66 and CU - were helped to gain a majority by the senators from the Nanninga faction (JA21). The Senate members of opposition parties Forum for Democracy and the Fentrop faction also voted in favor. Voters against this include the PVV, GroenLinks, PvdA, SP, Party for the Animals, 50-Plus and the Otten faction.
Blessing for construction
Despite all the criticism about its feasibility, CDA Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge calls the law 'a blessing for humanity'. According to him, the law will 'really help' to build hundreds of thousands of new homes. Last summer he spoke of a 'dark forest' of laws and regulations that 'slow down area development'.

VVD Prime Minister Mark Rutte has also been enthusiastic for years. He believes that the Environmental Act 'puts a strong line' on the excessive number of regulations that construction currently has to deal with. De Jonge's distant predecessor - Infrastructure Minister Melanie Schultz, who initiated the law in 2010 - called the Environmental Act 'the largest legislative operation since the Second World War', which would pull the ailing economy out of the doldrums.

Despite all the advantages mentioned, civil servants have been slightly less optimistic than policymakers in The Hague in recent years, partly because they fear that the new digital counter will not work properly. Yet it is precisely the officials of municipalities, provinces and water boards who urged the Senate last summer to quickly decide on the implementation date of the new Environmental Act. As long as the entry date is not one hundred percent certain, civil servants must work with two digital systems side by side. That costs a lot of time and money, and can also lead to problems for permit applicants.
New law should greatly simplify applications for building permits

View the original page: page 10

Load Date: March 14, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")