Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Cities: 'Regulate healthier eating with a law'
The Telegraph
January 27, 2021 Wednesday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 12
Length: 351 words
Body


From our Rotterdam
editorial
ROTTERDAM - A change in the law is needed to regulate a healthier food supply in larger cities. Municipalities do not have enough resources to arrange this themselves.
Rotterdam, Amsterdam, The Hague, Utrecht and Ede have noted this and research from the University of Amsterdam confirms this picture. That is why an urgent letter has been sent to the responsible State Secretary Paul Blokhuis (Public Health).
Rotterdam health councilor Sven de Langen has been advocating for a better distribution of food supply in the Maas city for some time. More than a year ago he announced that he would take on the battle with fast food chains that dominate the street scene.
It is easier to buy a hamburger in the city center than an apple, he noted angrily. The municipality would take action through the new Environmental Act, so that the number of hamburger shops could be phased out.
However, municipalities do not appear to have that option at all. That is why the Environmental Act, but also the Commodities Act, must be amended so that they are given this option.
"In order to prevent new unhealthy supply purely for public health reasons and thus to fulfill the obligation to ensure a healthy food environment for residents, a change in the law is necessary." The need is great, says De Langen. "More than just half of Rotterdam residents are overweight."
“The number of fast food outlets in the city must be reduced considerably. With legislative changes we can restore the balance in the food environment and combat 'chainization'," says De Langen. "In Rotterdam we not only want a healthy offering for our Rotterdammers, we also want a balance between fast food businesses and nice Rotterdam catering businesses that also offering healthy food."
Trial
However, he continues to try to direct himself where possible. For example, there will be a trial in the Maasstad in collaboration with a housing association. In addition, commercial space 'must be filled as a matter of priority with an alternative, varied and healthy offering'.
Easier to buy a hamburger than an apple
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 26, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")