Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Choking in the new reality
de Volkskrant
July 3, 2023 Monday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: V; Page 4, 5, 6
Length: 1863 words
Byline: LENNART VAN DER DEURE AND ROBERT VAN GIJSSEL
Highlight: For festival organizers, the future is becoming increasingly uncertain as regulatory pressure increases and 'organized opposition' becomes more skilled. And here too nitrogen is the new magic word.
Body


Pop - Background: nitrogen and festivals
If you want to experience for yourself how much impact a festival can have on the outdoors, and therefore on everything that goes on outside the festival gates, you only have to take a walk along Sunda, for example, on a beautiful Saturday in May. The one-day dance festival is located in a beautiful rural area next to the village of Groenekan, near Utrecht. It is built near a piece of nature where meadow birds normally breed and where bird watchers try to spot kingfishers, which cling to the banks around the rustic Fort Ruigenhoek.

But not today. From noon, about twenty thousand people walk through the nature and recreation area, on their way to the brightly colored tent camp where the four-quarter bars are already blasting between the stages. The mountain of thrown away energy drink and beer cans at the edge of the ditch is growing steadily. There is not a bird in sight - except for a group of surprised geese - and therefore no birdwatcher either.

And it doesn't stop at this Saturday. The set-up and dismantling of the one-day festival takes almost three weeks. There are road plates on the grass for the supply and removal of building materials, so walkers and local residents cannot stroll the usual paths. "Park Ruigenhoek is partially closed from May 8 to 26," reads yellow traffic signs in the area. And that for a total of eleven hours of dancing in the open air.

Festival goers come and go, but for local residents and those who love peace and quiet, the party lasts just a little longer. And even though Soenda neatly cleans up the stray cans after the festival, things are starting to become increasingly difficult.

The Netherlands has been exceptionally good at organizing festivals for decades; on the edges of the city, on the Wadden Islands, in the polder, in forests and parks and at all conceivable recreational lakes. The sector has been facing an ever-increasing trend in supply and visitor numbers for years. In 2022, 85 new events were added (mainly music festivals), in rural areas and on professionally equipped festival sites such as Megaland in Landgraaf or the Walibi Holland event site near Biddinghuizen.

Already in 2018, the party meter crossed the magical limit and more than a thousand festivals were organized in the Netherlands with more than three thousand visitors per event. Last year, an unimaginable 19.2 million individual 'festival visits' were made: 4 percent more than in 2019, the last 'normal' festival year before corona. Still impressive, for a country with 17 million inhabitants.

But the Netherlands is slowly reaching its limits, or rather: breaking out of the tight festival skin. More than ever before, festivals ran into problems this year because they were unable to obtain the correct permits from the municipality or province, or because energetic action committees managed to prevent the arrival of yet another festival in a favorite green area. And in the fray of supporters and opponents, a new magic word has emerged in recent years that seems to have a stranglehold on the whole of the Netherlands: nitrogen.

At the end of June it was announced that Welcome to the Village in Leeuwarden had been canceled after eleven successful editions. The festival was held in the Groene Ster recreational area, but had to leave because the action group Groene Ster Duurzaam was persistently opposed to the arrival of major events on that site. These would conflict with 'nature interests'. The municipality of Leeuwarden eventually agreed: Welcome to the Village had to move to another area, but it was not possible to obtain the correct permits in a short time.

And the Eilân music festival just can't do that either. The organization of this non-existent event has been trying to build something on Terschelling since 2019. The first edition was immediately banned by the judge, after protests from the Ons Lansingerland Foundation. This group had managed to demonstrate that Eilân did not meet 'the nitrogen standards'. Two years later, the organization succeeded in obtaining the required nature and environmental permit. But the equally necessary event permit could not be granted until the last minute because no additional ambulance could be available on the island on the designated festival day.

There are more examples of teased outdoor music parties. The Lente Kabinet festival, which always thrives in the Twiske nature and recreation area north of Amsterdam, was supported by the nitrogen regulations-wielding action group Hart voor het Twiske. And FestiValderAa in Schipborg, Drenthe, had to move and significantly downsize after protests from residents and the failure to obtain the correct nature permit.

The regulatory burden for festivals, new and old, is increasing and is also extremely complex due to the nitrogen problem, says Maarten van Lokven of Mojo. This concert organization is responsible for the implementation of major pop festivals such as Lowlands (Biddinghuizen) and Down The Rabbit Hole (Beuningen), held last weekend. "The regulatory burden has been increasing for ten years," he says. 'In the past we could sometimes organize a nice festival in a meadow or in a park. Mojo then organized large outdoor concerts at the Westerpark in Amsterdam, for eighteen thousand people. That is unthinkable now. You need years of preparation if you want to organize something at a new location, and even then it sometimes doesn't work out.'

According to Van Lokven, this is due to the increase in the number of festivals, but also because festival builders have to comply with an increasingly wider range of rules, imposed by more and more administrative bodies. This is also what Willem Westermann of the Association of Event Makers (VVEM) says. 'There are more festivals that simply involve some form of nuisance. And the places where they are allowed to be kept are scarce. We used to be working on a permit from the municipality. Now we have to report to the province more often to comply with all laws.'

According to Westermann, 'organized opposition' has also become increasingly skilled. 'Local residents who experience inconvenience due to noise, or because a road is no longer passable, notice that they can stop an event by constantly going to court. This puts them in a strong position, especially with the rights of nature in hand.' Besides, he says, they help each other through the summer. 'Sometimes people are against events even though they don't even live near them. But then they have managed to stop something in their own environment and then help others. Knowledge is exchanged about ways in which you can effectively stop events.'

And this is happening more and more often with the nitrogen rules in hand. In 2019, the Council of State put an end to the government's nitrogen policy, with major consequences for construction projects, agriculture and aviation. It became almost impossible to obtain a permit for activities that emit nitrogen in vulnerable nature reserves.

The festival industry was not affected much after that year: corona brought the live sector to a standstill. But now that festival life has blossomed again, the organizers notice how difficult life has become in the new nitrogen reality. And how incredibly complex environmental regulations have become. Maarten van Lokven of Mojo: 'As an organizer of a new festival, you really have to do your homework.'

A festival must now know the expected amount of nitrogen emissions and make this known to those issuing the permit. The emissions are mainly due to the traffic that has to go to and from the site. If the emissions also deposit in a nature reserve, the feared 'deposition', then they will have to be compensated; This can be done, for example, by using cleaner generators and electric vehicles that whiz around the festival site for days.

If a festival is unable to compensate for its own emissions, a permit must be applied for under the provincial Nature Conservation Act (WNB) and the emissions can be compensated by 'external netting'. This means that the nitrogen space of other companies in the area can be purchased.

Building a festival is still 'fighting for your right to party', but with your nose in the law books. 'External netting' does not yet occur often, according to research by De Volkskrant and inquiries from the provinces. Also because the substitution trick is not allowed in all provinces. But the Down The Rabbit Hole festival, for example, has almost literally engaged in a kind of horse trading. In 2020, the major Mojo pop festival, which is held in the Groene Heuvels recreational area, already bought the nitrogen rights of 39 cows. According to the festival management, the deal turned out well, because the farmer involved already wanted to downsize. In the end, it was of little use to Down The Rabbit Hole, because the festival was canceled due to corona.

Two years later, the company Leisurelands, the manager of the Groene Heuvels recreational area, took over the horse trading of Down The Rabbit Hole. For the 2022 and 2023 editions, Leisurelands purchased the nitrogen space of almost a hundred cows from a nearby livestock farmer. With the purchased nitrogen rights, other events can also be held on the recreation site.

A curious alliance was also forged in the North Brabant municipality of Haaren, between hardcore festival Rebirth and the company of farmer Willem van Roessel. The festival, which attracts almost forty thousand visitors every year, bought the nitrogen space of seventeen beef bulls, meaning the festival could go ahead right next to the livestock farm. And this was much to the pleasure of Van Roessel, who did not experience the arrival of the hordes of hardcore fans camping next to his farm as threatening. "They are nice people," he said to the daily newspaper BN DeStem after the festival in April. 'On Sunday morning I heard the birds chirping and the calves roaring, but nothing at all at the campsite.'

There is still a dark cloud hanging over the festival sector. From next year, a new Environmental Act will come into effect, which will set out zoning plans for areas, full of new frameworks, conditions and exceptions to the rules. According to Willem Westermann of the VVEM, this new law will again be a maze of rules that every festival organization will have to wander through. 'Municipalities will soon be able to indicate in the Environmental Act that a certain area may only be used for an event a few times a year, and that more parties per year are eligible for that option. A festival that has been in the same place for years no longer knows whether it will remain the same for the next five years. As a result, a festival will dare to make much fewer investments.'

Westermann also sees similarities with the agricultural sector in that respect. 'The most difficult thing about all the new rules, and we agree with the farmers and fishermen, is the uncertainty. You just don't know what rules are coming your way.'
With the collaboration of Nina Eshuis (data research).

View the original page: page 4, page 5, page 6

Graphic

 
May 20, 2023, the one-day dance festival Soenda has settled in a nature reserve near Groenekan.

Load Date: July 2, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")