Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Stop the privatization of construction supervision
De Volkskrant.nl
March 11, 2021 Thursday 01:08 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1346 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


  The end of the market ideology is being paid lip service in politics, but privatization in housing construction continues as normal, argues Jos Teunissen.
Long before the outbreak of the corona crisis, many people proclaimed the end of the era of neoliberal market ideology, which was the basis for the privatization of many government tasks and the introduction of market forces (often fake market forces, such as in childcare).
In September, Minister Hugo de Jonge predicted in his Abel Herzberg lecture that the year 2020 would go down in history as the end of neoliberalism: "The sacred faith in the market has been extinguished." Other political leaders have spoken out in similar terms over the past year. This is also the central theme in the current election campaign. Privatization and market forces should even be partially reversed. Is this more than just political rhetoric?
Division of construction supervision
Because how can these words be reconciled with the introduction in 2022, as part of the new Environmental Act, of the Quality Assurance for Building Act submitted to parliament in April 2016 by Housing Minister Stef Blok (VVD)? In addition, the construction technical assessment of construction plans and supervision during construction are privatized to 'quality assurance' and therefore brought under 'market forces'.
Initially this applies to simpler construction projects, such as single-family homes, but later also to more complex and 'riskier' construction projects. This concerns the privatization of a public task par excellence: construction supervision is an essential part of public care for public safety, health and quality of life.
The municipality remains responsible for assessing building plans against the zoning plan and aesthetic requirements. In order to be allowed to build, a construction candidate will soon need both a municipal permit and the approval of a private quality guarantor. This could be an architect, contractor or other construction expert who is registered as a quality guarantor.
Although a quality guarantor must also supervise during construction, if the construction rules are not complied with, enforcing those rules, if necessary, remains a municipal task. Good communication and information exchange between quality assurance and council is therefore necessary. Rules have also been set for this.
Quality assessment
The quality assurance must carry out the assessment in accordance with a 'quality assurance instrument', which has been developed for the relevant type of construction plans by an 'instrument provider' (these are legal terms) - for example a trade association or certification institution such as KOMO - and which is established by a new independent administrative body, the 'Admission organisation' has been admitted and included in a new national register. The 'quality assurance instruments' included in that register must also state which quality assurance agents are allowed to use that instrument.
A construction candidate for a certain type of construction may therefore only engage a quality assurance authority who, according to that register, may use an instrument that is permitted for the assessment of that type of construction. Whether a quality assurance professional is expert enough to be registered must be assessed by the instrument provider. And the Admissions Organization must, in turn, continue to ensure that instrument providers continue to meet the requirements. As part of that supervision, warnings, suspensions and withdrawals may be issued, which must also be recorded in the register. Of course, this also requires detailed rules. Objections and appeals (to the administrative court) are possible against all these decisions.
Rising construction costs
Because the building citizen will not only have to pay municipal construction fees (for the permit) but also compensation to the private quality guarantor, the total construction costs will most likely rise sharply. I have not yet heard about this from the Homeowners Association, which regularly complains about excessively high and opaque costs of municipal construction fees. Construction costs will rise even further because the liabilities and warning obligations of contractors will also be increased and they will therefore (have to) take out more expensive liability insurance, which will be passed on to the construction consumer
As soon as new construction is put into use, it becomes 'existing construction'. Checking whether existing buildings meet - and continue to meet - the construction requirements remains a municipal task. There will therefore be a split between the supervision of existing construction and the – privatized – supervision of new construction, although the enforcement task remains with the municipality.
Not fewer rules, but more
To make privatization of construction supervision possible, many new regulations are needed and an entire bureaucracy must be set up with quality assurance, quality instrument providers, an admission organization in the form of a new independent administrative body, a new register, application and appeal procedures, a system of supervision with warnings and withdrawals, etc. What do you mean by deregulation and reduction of regulatory burden? What do you mean simplification and integration?
Additional bureaucracy is also arising in the private construction sector itself, especially for smaller contractors and construction companies. New contracts must be concluded, statutes must be amended and provisions must be made in view of the increased liability risks.
And how can it be prevented that 'the butcher' – the quality guarantor – 'inspects his own meat'? Although it has been determined that the quality assurance must be expert and 'independent', the world of architects, contractors and construction consultancies - who in practice will also function as quality assurance - is not so large that risks of influence can be excluded.
Citizens do not benefit, trade does
What actually benefits the building citizen from privatization? While he can now suffice with one building application from the municipality, he will soon have to follow two tracks and the costs will rise sharply. And what is his position if the quality assurance company goes bankrupt but his house is not ready yet? Where can he go then? The responsibility is then removed from the municipality. Although an arrangement has been made for the liability of the quality guarantor, in practice this is of little or no use to the construction consumer in the event of bankruptcy.
In short: privatization of construction supervision, to put it mildly, is not a good idea. The actual reason for privatization is, I fear, very vulgar: new 'trade' is created with a completely new industry of private quality guarantors, who are assured of work (and therefore income) because the new regulations force citizens to have such a quality guarantor. to be allowed to build.
Lessons learned?
You might expect that lessons have been learned from previous privatization operations: it is difficult to prevent private parties entrusted with a public task - here the monitoring of safety and health during construction - from focusing primarily on income maximization and cost minimization at the expense of proper task management, which in turn tends to lead to tightening of regulations and government supervision of the manner in which tasks are carried out by private parties. The privatization of childcare is just one of the terrifying examples.
So stop the privatization of construction supervision, the marketization of an essential public task: ensuring public safety and health. Whether or not to continue with this privatization operation seems like a litmus test to me: is it really true that - as Gabriël van den Brink argued in his book last year - we have had a rude awakening from a neoliberal dream?
J.M.H.F. (Jos) Teunissen
 <LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>625d83a-1615468993.json</LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>

Load Date: March 11, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")