Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Bring spatial planning back to the national government in one ministry
NRC.NEXT
March 4, 2021 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 18
Length: 1039 words
Body


ABSTRACT
A multidisciplinary group of experts in the field of spatial planning warns against fragmentation of the landscape due to the haphazard planning of wind turbines, houses, trees and 'natural remains'.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The Netherlands faces major challenges in the next ten years. It has committed itself to obligations with regard to climate, sustainable energy, environmental quality and biodiversity and is faced with social challenges with regard to a valuable landscape, a liveable countryside, housing and infrastructure. There are to be 3,180 wind turbines and 34,500 hectares of solar panels, 1 million homes and 100 million trees. But there is no necessary overarching policy to spatially integrate the process.
There has been that. The government once based its Spatial Planning on government memoranda, in which national spatial policy was laid down in a binding manner. This approach was abandoned in 2001. The government has withdrawn and delegated regulation almost entirely to provinces and municipalities. Advice from the Scientific Council for Government Policy to expand central management with a landscape main structure of ecologically and cultural-historically important areas and to introduce regular quality controls were not followed. After the 2008 crisis, economic forces gained the upper hand: in 2010, Spatial Planning in the classic sense was even abolished.
Integrating the major challenges that the Netherlands now faces is therefore highly problematic. The design of our outdoor space, once admired abroad, will be fragmented, partly due to the declining influence of agriculture, into an incoherent collection of functional islands and natural remains, which will never achieve the necessary quality due to their isolated location. There is a lack of clear organization based on coherent objectives. As a result, there is also a lack of support for a coherent solution. Spatial interest groups are no longer in consultation with each other, but are increasingly opposed to each other, literally up to the Malieveld. One thing is clear, we won't get there that way.
The corona pandemic has made us realize once again that an attractive living environment is of vital importance. To achieve this, a lot of work needs to be done. Against this background, calls are increasingly being made for the reintroduction of a ministry for spatial planning. That would be a step in the right direction, but it is not enough.
We strongly advocate a return to a coherent national spatial policy, in which a vision of a sustainable living environment guides the policy of local authorities. The formulation and monitoring of implementation of such a vision may not be delegated to provinces and municipalities. The national government must once again take responsibility for major decisions about our outdoor spaces, taking into account health, water safety, well-habitable cities, landscape and recreational quality and the quality of life in rural areas.
The design of land use is not about separate sectors such as housing, economy or infrastructure, but about a balanced distribution of all interests. This includes zones for sustainable energy, housing and new nature. National plans for reducing nitrogen emissions and improving biodiversity are also part of this. A rich and attractive landscape is also an important location condition for European sectors of technology, innovation and high-quality services. Given the lack of space, it will also be necessary to look more closely at where space-saving solutions are possible, including in European cooperation outside our country. The complexity, long-term consequences and international component of this policy require strong management. In addition to a minister, a landscape commissioner should be appointed to guarantee long-term implementation with a sufficient budget.
For coherent spatial planning, legislation tailored to its implementation is crucial. Doubts are growing as to whether the proposed Environmental Act is suitable for this purpose. There are a large number of objections to this law in its current format. The law is not anchored in an effective vision.
Implementation remains decentralized to local authorities without national direction. The promised budget-neutral introduction has not yet proven to be feasible. The intention of the Environmental Act is to simplify planning procedures, but the most important pillar under the law, an ICT system, is still not in order and experiences with decision-making based on such complex systems are certainly not positive.
Citizen participation and legal proceedings are restricted; One-sided coalitions between governments and powerful interest groups are opposed by other interest groups and citizens, resulting in a lack of the necessary support.
Due to new objections, the introduction of the law has already been postponed several times. The new date for entry into force is January 1, 2022, but calls for further postponement are growing.
We also argue for amendment of the Environmental Act into an instrument that is better equipped for the tasks facing the Netherlands in 2021.
If we want to make our outdoor space livable and sustainably healthy, conscious policy is needed that has support and is goal-oriented and feasible based on clear objectives. Against the background of the major challenges we face, extreme speed is required; well-considered attention to our environment is a national interest that cannot tolerate further delay.
The draft Environmental Act is not anchored in an effective vision
Adriaan Geuze, professor of landscape architecture and spatial planning, Wageningen University & Research. Christine Sijbesma, former senior program officer/head of research IRC Int. Water and Sanitation Centre. Cees Veerman, former Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and former chairman of the board of Wageningen University.
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
A protest banner against the plans to build in the Sloterplas near Amsterdam.
Photo Berlinda van Dam / ANP

Load Date: March 3, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")