Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Discord over Second Kaagbaan; Ministry continues with research despite decline in air traffic
The Telegraph
August 19, 2020 Wednesday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 20
Length: 612 words
Body


Ministry continues with research despite decline in air traffic
The battle over the arrival of the Second Kaagbaan at Schiphol has started. The ministry wants to make the decision next year while the corona crisis has a deep impact. The airport warns against irreversible decisions.
The site of the Tweede Kaagbaan has been reserved for years and is currently partly used for the storage of contaminated soil. If the cabinet were to decide to cancel the reservation, the curtain would in principle fall on the new runway.
The Ministry of Infrastructure does not want to postpone the investigation, according to inquiries from De Telegraaf. "Given the pressure on space in the area around Schiphol, the ministry wants to provide clarity to all parties involved as soon as possible about whether or not to continue the reservation," says a spokesperson.
Schiphol warns that no 'irreversible steps' should be taken. "It is good that the government provides insight into whether long-term adjustments can lead to an operation with less nuisance to the environment. This requires careful research," a spokesperson said in a response. Schiphol expects that the number of travelers will only return to pre-corona levels in a few years.
Now that the government is sticking to the Schiphol aviation hub and has actually ruled out the option of an airport in the sea in the recently published Aviation Memorandum, the Kaagbaan runway is explicitly in the picture for the long term. The alternative of a second Polderbaan has also been considered, but it is less safe and also offers fewer benefits.
Grow
"The Second Kaag Runway is simply necessary for the growth to 650,000 flight movements, for reasons of safety and capacity. Because this will be located parallel to the current Kaag runway, the aircraft do not have to cross other runways. This can increase the number of take-offs and landings per hour," says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop.
 The municipality of Haarlemmermeer, where Schiphol is located, wants the reservation for the Second Kaagbaan to be canceled, preferably today. “Now everything is kept locked down by the reservation, which means we cannot build homes. With a Second Kaagbaan Runway, a center like Rijsenhout would have to be given up. It will then become unliveable," says a spokesperson.
Schiphol's vision for the future is partly based on a flourishing KLM, but the company is currently on the brink of collapse. "We are busy surviving to maintain the network function for the Netherlands. Discussions about growth after 2024 are not a priority now," a spokesperson said.
Permit
The municipalities of Haarlemmermeer and Nieuwkoop are expressly looking at Lelystad Airport or other regional airports. The minister should also look again at an airport at sea, according to Alderman Elkhuizen.
Although the ministry is launching an investigation, it could take decades before the runway is completed. Schiphol is currently working on a nature permit, which is lacking for 500,000 flight movements. In addition, the future plans must be tested from an environmental perspective.
There will also be a new Environmental Act in which noise nuisance will count much more heavily. How realistic is it that the Second Kaagbaan Runway will ever be licensed? "Nothing surprises me anymore," says Elkhuizen. "Due to the new Environmental Act, we can hardly build anymore. Moreover, the number of houses that are there in 2018 is taken into account. This means that on paper the number of people seriously inconvenienced is much is lower than at the moment when the shovel goes into the ground."
'Necessary for 650,000 flights'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 18, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")