Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Opposition to Environmental Act
NRC.NEXT
February 10, 2021 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 8
Length: 322 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan
Dateline: Heerlen
Body


ABSTRACT
Municipalities
Almost half of the aldermen want to postpone or cancel the Environmental Act. The Senate fears chaos in the implementation.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The Environmental Act, which must combine dozens of laws and hundreds of ministerial regulations on the design of outdoor spaces, from noise standards to catering regulations and environmental legislation, is encountering resistance in municipalities. Councilors responsible for the introduction of this law, which should come into effect in January 2022, fear IT dramas and a financial debacle.
Research by the trade magazine Domestic Governance and the national Aldermen's Association shows that almost half of the 177 aldermen interviewed are opposed to the introduction. Of these, 37 percent want a postponement and 11 percent even annulment of the law.
Since the beginning of this year, municipalities have been testing the software and IT systems that must make the new law work in practice. But many municipalities do not get around to doing this, the research shows. The test phase is failing in many places in the country due to unworkable software. Smaller municipalities in particular cannot cope with the new law in practice because measures surrounding the corona crisis now require their attention. As a result, there is hardly any administrative capacity available. Moreover, the corona crisis is rapidly consuming the financial reserves of municipalities.
Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs, D66) had wanted to get the law through both Houses before the elections. The House of Representatives agreed at the end of last year and called on the minister to introduce the law on time. The Senate is blocking this for fear of chaos in implementation at municipalities and provinces.
Ollongren says in response to the research that further delays will only make the operation more expensive. She says she understands "municipalities where implementation is a major challenge", but sticks to the introduction date. The question is whether she can convince the Senate.
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Minister Ollongren.
Photo Bart Maat / ANP

Load Date: February 9, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")