Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=You don't have to leave the house for the Senate
de Volkskrant
December 9, 2021 Thursday


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 9
Length: 693 words
Byline: ARIEJAN KORTEWEG
Body


Column in The Hague and Hilvarenbeek
First through the baggage check, jacket off, another jacket off; hand in keys, phone, pen, glasses, take off belt. Welcome aboard Air Eerste Kamer, ready for a rough flight above a democratic landscape. Later a lunch from a box, with gravy and sandwiches. The service is good. Only, where are the other passengers?

The Senate also moved. It is rarely about that, just as it is not often about the Senate anyway. Especially now that legislation is on the back burner due to corona and endless formation.

A lot has already been said about the new housing and it hasn't gotten any better. More precisely: the factions sit under the chandeliers of Huis Huguetan, a city palace. That's neat. Even a pumping room - not yet used - has been thought of.

But above the service entrance there is a colored plateau that the average primary school would thank. And the plenary hall is the extreme version of the concept of 'sober and efficient', the motto under which the renovation of the Binnenhof is taking place. The gray painters struck and the carpet is a leftover from the gray banger - people should start thinking that politicians are pampering themselves. The good news is that the walls will still be painted during the Christmas recess (a first), and the lighting will be improved.

Many senators have not yet seen that plenary chamber with their own eyes. If they do come, they will go to the Ridderzaal for the plenary meetings, which will be closed for renovation in two weeks. In the corridors I mainly meet the right flank: Annabel Nanninga with a cake to celebrate the one-year anniversary of JA21; I see Johan Dessing from FvD, Henk Otten from the Otten Group says hello.

Somewhere in the stairwell is an elegant table where senators can sign the attendance register. At 11 am only ten signatures have been signed, which will gradually increase to 33. Less than half of the senators are therefore present on this meeting day. This is due to the lockdown, but a lot was also done digitally during the relaxations. The Senate is quite modern when it comes to digitizing democracy. There is a digital attendance register and therefore also a digital quorum.

To see the Senate at work, I go to Hilvarenbeek. Tanja Klip-Martin (67) lives there, having just moved from Drenthe - she was a deputy and then a dike manager. She is vice-chairman of the VVD Senate faction, which likes to set a good example: the faction meetings are also largely held via screen.

In her house on the edge of the village, Klip-Martin has a kind of Senate room with a wall with folders and a secure connection via the Senate's iPad, where about a dozen heads report to the Senate at a quarter to four sharp. the Economic Affairs and Climate Committee. The chairman asks whether there are any objections to a journalist watching. Well, no, the Senate is not like that.

At a quarter to five, the Infrastructure, Water Management and Environment committee will follow, followed by the evaluation of an expert meeting on the Environment Act. There are still fifteen meetings today.

Between acts I ask Klip-Martin, trained as an art historian, whether she has already seen the plenary hall. She is cautious: 'It's not sad. The best has been made.'

You miss the informal conversations here, she thinks, looking up from her screen. And the walk to the House of Representatives - referred to as 'the other side' - to hear what people think there. Although there are Senate bicycles with which senators can travel to the Bezuidenhoutseweg.

They had agreed to call each other 'you' online as well. But via the screen it is immediately more informal. Mary and Saskia soon inquire about the move, Ilse wants to know whether she is going to build the garden herself.

"I don't see any hands anymore," chairman Meijer notes after 25 minutes. 'Then Mr Korteweg is also thanked for his attention.'

Klip-Martin, afterwards: 'This is efficient, you can see that. Still, when corona has become a normal flu, we will meet physically again. Man is a social being.'

View the original page: page 9

Graphic

 
Signing in the Senate

Load Date: December 8, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")