Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The crisis had one advantage for construction
NRC Handelsblad
March 31, 2020 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: ECONOMY; Page 4
Length: 865 words
Byline: Arjen Schreuder
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
Slow decision making
The Crisis and Recovery Act of 2010 put an end to long procedures. The 'temporary' support gave construction projects wings.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Everything moves faster during a crisis. “The lines are super short. Positive forces are being unleashed," says chairman of the board Carla Moonen of the trade association Royal NL Engineers. "We can apply what we learn now."
Ten years ago this Tuesday, a temporary law came into effect that was intended to combat the loss of jobs during the crisis at the time: the Crisis and Recovery Act. "There are many parallels with now," says Moonen. Just like then, there is a "great willingness to realize a breakthrough" and limit the consequences of a crisis.
Moonen, now also a senator for D66, was closely involved in drafting the Crisis and Recovery Act ten years ago. She was a consultant at the Ministry of General Affairs, for then Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende (CDA). "It was the time when the financial crisis spread to the real economy. Wouter Bos [then Minister of Finance, PvdA] was saving the banks and Balkenende wondered what else the government could do to soften the effects on employment."
In those years, there was a lot of dissatisfaction about rules and procedures that could delay construction projects. Moonen: "Balkenende saw with his own eyes in Utrecht that a staggering number of permits were required for the renovation of the station area. For inner-city projects, the lead time was ten to fifteen years."
Former DSM CEO Peter Elverding had already advised to accelerate decision-making for the construction of infrastructure, and Delft University of Technology advocated breaking the "impasse" in construction. Carla Moonen: "After meetings at a European summit in Brussels we discussed the issue. Balkenende came up with the idea for a temporary law that would speed up procedures and stimulate sustainable initiatives. I was put in charge of making that law, which had to be ready in six months."
Effects 'unclear'
With a team of three lawyers from three ministries, Moonen looked for unnecessary rules and major annoyances and obstacles. Such as legislation that delays the expansion of the rail network, delays in the construction of the Second Maasvlakte due to temporary exceedance of environmental standards, governments litigating against each other, overlapping environmental impact assessments and last but not least time-consuming legal proceedings at the Council of State.
It would have been very close if the law, drawn up at a rapid pace, would not have come into effect on March 31, 2010. Moonen: "The cabinet fell in February 2010 and it was very exciting whether the Senate would subsequently declare the law controversial and not deal with it. I remember coming to the Binnenhof and the Secretary General of General Affairs said to me: Carla, maybe all the work was for nothing." Ultimately, after a debate in the Senate, a vote was taken.
With the law, four hundred projects have been realized in two hundred municipalities in ten years; several dozen more are added every year. Seven years ago, the law was made permanent by the second Rutte cabinet, despite criticism from the Council of State that the effects of the law were "unclear".
What's up with that? "The law has generated a lot of work," says Diederik Bel, sector director of the built environment at consultancy and engineering firm Witteveen+Bos. "What has especially helped is certainty about the duration of appeal procedures; the court can be involved in plans and coordinated permits. skipped and the procedure before the Council of State never lasts longer than six months."
Energy transition
Unfortunately, according to Bel, until recently it took a long time to get a project on the list that would bring it under the scope of the law. "I have personally experienced that it took a year." He hopes that the new Environmental Act, which has been advanced by the cabinet and into which the Crisis and Recovery Act will soon be incorporated, will work even faster. And that more energy transition projects will be launched. and climate adaptation are included. Bel: "Many traditional construction projects have been helped by the law. I would say: never waste a good crisis and pay even more attention to other projects."
In addition to satisfied voices from governments and the construction industry, the law has also provoked resistance, as if it would make participation more difficult and that decisions would be 'pushed through'. Bel: "The law limits the interest of objectors to people who live nearby and are directly harmed. This puts professional objectors at a distance. Subsequently, more clubs have emerged that can jointly object. In a country like the Netherlands, a counter-movement will always be organised." Moonen: "The fact that rules have disappeared has in many cases removed the obstacles to neighborhood participation, for citizens and companies."
The crisis had one advantage for construction: less bureaucratic hassle
With the law, 400 projects have been realized in 200 municipalities in ten years
In addition to satisfaction from construction and governments, the law also aroused resistance
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Fifteen hundred permits were required for the renovation of the station area in Utrecht.
Photo Jerry Lampen/ANP

Load Date: March 31, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")