Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Beware of amateurism with so many locals on the council
NRC.NEXT
April 4, 2018
nn Wednesday


Copyright 2018 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion; Page 18
Length: 662 words
Byline: Erika Spil and Jeroen Dirks.
Body


ABSTRACT
Local councilors lack a national network of experienced politicians and thorough management training, warn Erika Spil and Jeroen Dirks.
In 164 of the 335 municipalities, a local party became the largest. Supported by a positive press, the well-known explanations are given for this enormous profit. Local parties are closer to the residents than national parties. They know what's going on. Really true?
Do the local CDAs or PvdAs not know their residents? Do the local national parties not know what is going on? Nonsense, of course. Neighbor A, who is a councilor for a local national party, knows just as well what is going on as Neighbor B, a member of an exclusively local party. Are local parties really better for the residents? That is also the question: local parties often pursue the realization of only one or two goals: no wind turbine, no mega stable. Or they introduce wind egg democracy. "You can say it!" shouted Ronde Venen. Importance of his posters. Right, but about what, how, with whom? What happens to my opinion?
Negotiations for new colleges are now starting everywhere. And that raises questions. For example, we know a local party that is new, won big, but has no program except its one issue. She wants to go to college. That no longer has anything to do with 'local strength' or 'being there for the citizen'. Surveys consistently show that citizens consider good healthcare important. But you don't hear the local parties talking about that. Logical, because you can't make it with a horn when it comes to tough subject matter such as the Social Support Act. Council members are just people. Everyone has their own wishes and interests. Where national parties provide training, many local parties lack such training. Although many municipalities provide training themselves, no one can force a councilor to do so. So it happens that after four years of plush councilors still don't know the difference between amendment and motion. It often happens that councilors give executive orders to the council. Better not to weigh too much, just do it, according to the local council members. 'Citizens want it!'
So there is still a big difference between local councilors and councilors who can fall back on national expertise. With so many new locals, we run the risk that tough parts of the Social Domain, the Environmental Act or sustainability will be muddled between populist issues such as lower property taxes and waste taxes.
The accusation of local national parties that they are following The Hague's leash makes little sense. If only people in The Hague knew what was going on locally! If only the regulations for municipalities in The Hague were coordinated with those municipalities. Many tasks were delegated to the municipalities, but The Hague keeps a tight rein.
Instead of praising local parties, it is time to take a closer look at the democratic model. Municipalities are - to name just a few - responsible for the Social Domain, integration and climate change. In other words: for the paving stone, trees, fire brigade, benefits, building, lampposts, informal care, youth care, floods, electric central heating boilers, passports, lost objects and so on.
What local politics needs for this is a well-equipped council with knowledge of the political game. Council members who undergo continuous training. Council members who establish and monitor frameworks, where the council is responsible for implementation. Ergo, council members who do not care about these political rules should be able to be suspended. Whether they are from a local or a national party. The importance of good decision-making far exceeds the political importance of sticklers and populists.
Erika Spil is a councilor for Perspectief 21 in Bunnik. She was previously an alderman for PvdA/GroenLinks in the Ronde Venen. Jeroen Dirks is a freelance journalist and sociologist.

Notes

Erika Spil is a councilor for Perspectief 21 in Bunnik. She was previously an alderman for PvdA/GroenLinks in the Ronde Venen. Jeroen Dirks is a freelance journalist and sociologist.

Load Date: April 3, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")