Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wait for our actions....
de Volkskrant
September 18, 2013 Wednesday


Copyright 2013 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First
Length: 1796 words
Byline: TEXT EDITORIAL THE HAGUE GRAPHIC THIJS BALDER
Body


Rutte II presents his first budget and enters his second year, the year in which the coalition agreement must become law and regulations. What does the government have in mind for the country and what will we notice?
Stimulating the economy
It is quite a list of the plans with which the government is trying to boost the economy. But one thing is paramount: reducing the national debt. It will cost EUR 11 billion in interest this year and EUR 9 billion next year. “Money that we burn,” Prime Minister Rutte said in his H.J. Schoo lecture, 'because we get nothing in return.'

While you can also invest with those billions, reduce taxes and boost consumption. "And that directly leads to more jobs," said Rutte. But for the time being, stimulating the economy in this way will not work, because the national debt continues to rise and so do the interest rates.

What should give the economy a boost as quickly as possible is the new 'Dutch investment institution', NII. This should encourage pension funds, insurers and banks to invest together in the Netherlands. So in healthcare, energy, infrastructure, school buildings, housing and sustainability.

This NII includes the NHI, the National Mortgage Institution. It will issue Dutch mortgage bonds, guaranteed by the government. Banks can thus lend money to companies, the housing market is revived and homeowners pay less for their mortgage. That should stimulate the economy.

And that also happens when dead money is kissed awake, the hobby of PvdA leader Samsom. What matters is that money flows into the economy. The government wants to encourage wealthy people to spend their severance payments. Parents can also donate more and more easily to their children.
Public health
First the good news: basic health insurance will be about 2 euros per month cheaper and amounts to 1,226 euros per year (102.17 euros per month). This compensates for the increase in the deductible to 360 euros, 20 euros more than this year.

Furthermore, healthcare is entirely dedicated to the transformation of the Netherlands from a welfare state to a 'participation society', as the cabinet introduced on Tuesday in the Speech from the Throne. This means: doing more yourself and paying more yourself.

This is most clearly noticeable in long-term care. Disabled and chronically ill people are becoming more dependent on their municipality. There are currently national financial arrangements, but these are being abolished. The halved budget is transferred to municipalities. How they will divide this depends on the wishes of the local municipal council.

In 2015, the role of the municipalities will become even greater. They then also become responsible for youth care and for the care of elderly and disabled people who still live - more or less - independently. The red line: everyone must remain self-reliant for as long as possible by relying on their own wallet and on informal caregivers in their own circle. The government only intervenes when other options have been exhausted. All this cannot prevent expenditure on long-term care from continuing to rise: by almost one billion euros to 28.1 billion in 2014.

Many also have to deal with changes in health care benefits. The calculation of the allowance changes, which may cause it to be lower.
Job market
Just as in healthcare, 'participation society' is becoming the new motto in the labor market. The government is withdrawing, the central government in the first place. Many matters that are still regulated nationally go to municipalities, which can also put their own stamp on this. The largest operation is the merger of social assistance, sheltered workshops and the Wajong scheme for young disabled people. From 2015, the municipalities will be responsible. This is a mega-law that will have to be passed through the House of Representatives and the Senate in the coming months, while all conceivable groups are lobbying for a partial interest.

Less government is also the motto for subsidies for families with children. Ten schemes become four, with a tighter budget. Child benefit remains, but is reduced. Currently, the allowance will increase as the child gets older, but soon there will be one rate: the lowest. All other rates will be reduced, starting in mid-2014.
Education
The nicest ministerial post this week is that of Education. While the other ministries are sighing and announcing cuts, Jet Bussemaker (PvdA) is handing out money. And generous too: she has 689 million euros to forgive. This amount has become available now that trade unions and school administrators have signed the National Education Agreement.

First of all, Bussemaker brings a salary increase for the teachers - from 2015, but they can already take an advance in 2014. She is also making 150 million euros available one-time to primary and secondary schools, so that they can employ young teachers. The Education Agreement, which was made public on Tuesday by the General Education Union, also states that the hour standard in secondary education is from now on 1,000 hours per year, instead of the criticized 1,040. Furthermore, the workload for teachers is reduced, for example because teachers no longer have to make action plans for students. In exchange for all this, the generous arrangement that gave older teachers more days off will be abolished.

Bussemaker frees up money by abolishing free school books and social internships. Less money is also available for practical education and learning support education, the lowest forms of secondary education.

Students come off badly. Bussemaker is sticking to the student loan system, even though parliamentary support for it is uncertain. She also supports the abolition of the student public transport card.
Safety
Ivo Opstelten, the Minister of Security, is known for his tough approach - to youth gangs, to cannabis cultivation, to violence during the holidays, everything. The VVD member uses this Budget Day to subtly change his message. "This is the time to take action," Opstelten says.

It is a well-chosen phrase: his budget contains no new plans to fight crime. He's doing what he's been doing for three years now. Punishing robberies, muggings and home burglaries, for example. And judges still have to work more efficiently by making more use of computers.

The decisions Opstelten makes are based on the fact that he is also short on cash. The minister is increasing court fees by 15 percent, so that fewer people start a lawsuit. The police, which previously would receive an extra 105 million, now have to make do with an extra 30 million. This money is intended, among other things, for apps that allow officers on the street to identify suspects, request information about them and issue tickets. Colleague Fred Teeven is also making big cuts: on prisons and legal aid, in particular.

Teeven emphasized again on Tuesday that he wants to combine a restrictive with a humane immigration policy. Humane, that means: fewer rejected aliens in detention, no visitation, more entertainment. Restrictive, which lies in the criminalization of illegality. That should deter migrants. Except for the wealthy foreigners, Teeven hastens to emphasize. They are welcome.
Beautiful Netherlands
Opinions differ about what is beautiful. But Minister Schultz does have an idea. "During this cabinet period, a total of more than 760 kilometers of asphalt will be added," the minister said enthusiastically on Tuesday. Nearly 150 kilometers will be completed next year. A lot of ambition translates into better roads around Utrecht, the construction of the Blankenburg tunnel and the projects around the A13/A16 and the extended A15.

The track also needs to be improved, especially near Utrecht. In 2014, work will begin to untangle the 'spaghetti' of tracks around Utrecht Central Station. This should promote the flow from north to south and from east to west.

Schultz will start its mega operation in 2014 to simplify the permit system for citizens and entrepreneurs. Environmental law, now spread over 40 laws, 117 General Administrative Orders (AMvBs) and hundreds of ministerial regulations, is bundled into one new Environmental Act and four AmvBs.

In rural areas, all stables must become sustainable from 2015. There will be stricter rules for animal transport and the breeding of pet animals. In the fight against the harmful effects of animal diseases, antibiotic use must now be further reduced quickly: it must be reduced by 70 percent in 2015 compared to 2009.
Abroad
At bonje abroad we are forced to adopt a more modest approach. Once again the armed forces are being cut, with major consequences for our strategic ambitions.

At a diplomatic level, we remain very ambitious. The government emphasizes that it wants to continue to play an active role in the EU, NATO and the UN. 'Because we are dependent on foreign countries for our security and prosperity.' Minister Timmermans makes this very concrete: he is campaigning for a seat on the UN Human Rights Council and for a seat on the UN Security Council, so that the Netherlands can once again join the conversation with the big boys on the world stage.

Our diplomatic corps is not ignored by the cutbacks: European missions are being cut back, we are looking for cheaper embassy buildings and more attention is being paid to missions in emerging economies.

Minister Ploumen is transforming development aid into economic cooperation. There remains room for aid, but a lot of energy is focused on stimulating the economy in developing countries, with the help of Dutch companies.
Nice things for the people
There will be one telephone number for consular services to Dutch people in need abroad. It is available 24 hours a day.

The public transport chip card becomes more user-friendly. It becomes easier to transfer between rail carriers. The chip card posts become more visible and easier to find.

The age for the mandatory senior driver's license inspection will be increased from 70 to 75 years. This saves Dutch people 15.7 million euros in costs every year.

The total costs of the royal family next year will be 39,987,000 euros. That is a narrow decrease: for this year, the Royal House has more than 40 million euros in the books. Willem-Alexander will receive a benefit of 817,000 euros in 2014. As queen, Beatrix received a benefit of 825,000 euros.

Victims of a robbery, mugging or burglary will be told within two weeks what the police have done with their report. Citizens and entrepreneurs no longer have to go to the office to file a report. They can also report what happened to them to the police by telephone or via the internet.

Load Date: September 17, 2013


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")