Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Welfare abolished; Municipalities can decide for themselves whether they ask committees for advice
The Telegraph
December 7, 2011 Wednesday


Copyright 2011 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: Residential newspaper; Page 29
Length: 679 words
Body


If it were up to the cabinet, municipalities would soon no longer be obliged to set up aesthetic committees. The government wants to abolish aesthetics committees as of January 1, 2013. Will this make the Netherlands much uglier? The municipality of Boekel has not had a welfare committee for seven years. Since then, municipal officials from all over the Netherlands and politicians from The Hague have been coming by to see if it is very ugly.
 We then ask which houses were built under welfare standards and which were not. And then they can't figure it out, according to spokesperson Hanneke Dam of the Brabant municipality, who decided to abolish the aesthetics committee to reduce the regulatory burden. For example, a building permit in the municipality can be arranged within half a day at a so-called construction counter. The only condition that citizens who want an extension or dormer window must meet is to submit a construction plan drawn up by a certified architect. The architect then ensures that a building does not become too ugly, or so the reasoning goes.
 Boekel has certainly not become uglier, says Dam. We wanted to put the responsibility for the beauty of the village back to the citizens. So far, no one in the municipality of Boekel has mourned the disappearance of prosperity. Only the neighbor across the street who complained about a text on a wall had to back down. This was discussed in the municipal council and it was decided that no policy can be made about incidental cases.
Flip ten Cate of the Welstand Federation, the umbrella club of welfare committees, knows this case from Boekel. If there had been a committee, the angry neighbor across the street would probably have been right. Nowadays, such a committee certainly does not consist of architects who, from their ivory tower, thwart private individuals who want to beautify their homes. It is a committee of wise men and women who assess situations against municipal policy.
Ten Cate disputes that not making such committees mandatory would lead to Belgian situations, which usually refers to the architectural hodgepodge that characterizes villages and towns in our southern neighbors. If a municipality decides that the architecture may not be uniform, the committee will check this, he says. But in the Netherlands we like orderliness.
According to Ten Cate, another motivation for retaining the committees is that the hearings are public and so is the decision-making. If officials have to decide on welfare in the future, it will be much less transparent. The club of aesthetic committees believes that a lot of knowledge and expertise will be thrown away by abolishing the committees. But isn't it much cheaper to abolish commissions? Ten Cate doesn't think so. At most 15 million. A pittance if you compare that with the sixty billion that is spent annually on construction." So the alternative is to have the official assess the welfare. Or, indeed, like Boekel, abolish the welfare altogether. That may work for Boekel, but not for for example the city center of Amsterdam.
But how do these welfare committees get that negative image? It is always about private interests versus the public interest. Ten Cate gives the example of making wooden frames mandatory compared to plastic. And sometimes there is also misunderstanding when, for example, an ugly apartment building is allowed and an incorrect division of windows is not. However, Ten Cate also believes that things should be better. But it is not the fault of the aesthetic committees. It is the municipalities that have to make these decisions. The committee only reviews.
Not making the committees mandatory is only a temporary decision by the cabinet, taken in anticipation of a new environmental law. This will replace all sixty laws that currently exist regarding spatial planning. And this will also look at how welfare will be arranged. Ten Cate: Not a bad thing, but why does everything have to be different for that short period of time?

Load Date: December 7, 2011


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")