Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Do we want a healthier Netherlands? Then finally focus on prevention, says this professor
De Volkskrant.nl
May 26, 2023 Friday 08:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1819 words
Byline: Michiel van der Geest, Hessel von Piekartz
Body


 The richest Dutch people live no less than 25 years longer in good health than the poorest Dutch people. If we include health goals in the law, we could reduce this enormous difference, says Groningen professor and creator of the plan Jochen Mierau.
Of course you can have fries every now and then. And really, have that beer. There are fears that the government would take all of this away as soon as health goals were included in the law. Jochen Mierau, professor of public health economics at the University of Groningen and the UMCG and scientific director of Lifelines, is discouraged by such simplifications.
On the other hand, a significant change is definitely needed in society. The latest CBS figures show that people from the highest socio-economic class live 25 years longer in good health than their fellow countrymen from the lowest class. Mierau: 'If that were four or five years, you might still think: who cares? But this is more than a quarter of your life!'
About the authors
Michiel van der Geest is a healthcare reporter for the Volkskrant and focuses on all forms of healthcare: from hospitals to general practitioners, from disability care to Big Pharma and from health differences to the risk of falls.
Hessel von Piekartz is a political reporter for de Volkskrant and writes about public health, pensions and social security. He was nominated for the De Tegel journalism prize in 2022.
Three years ago, Mierau therefore came up with a plan: the Netherlands should become the first country in the world where 'health goals' are included in the law. Concrete agreements about public health for which ministers (and at a lower level also aldermen and other administrators) must be accountable. He elaborated on this together with professor of health law Brigit Toebes in several scientific articles.
His idea quickly gained acceptance: a parliamentary motion instructed the minister to investigate the plan, last month the Council for Health and Society gave it an important place in its advice on the future of public health care, and in February the medical organization KNMG and seventy others called organizations to embrace the government's Mierau plan. In vain, State Secretary Van Ooijen is holding off for the time being.
What should we consider when considering these 'legal health goals'?
'For example, at least five additional healthy years of life for everyone, 30 percent smaller health differences, the obesity level back to that of the 1990s. These are all the goals in the Prevention Agreement, so lay them down in law. How to reach them is up to you, as long as you get there. If the government does not implement a proven effective way to reduce health disparities, the question quickly arises: why not introduce it?'
But first, says Mierau, it is important to note that the discussion about health disparities has been going on since the 1980s. 'They have been increasing since then. We are in a cycle of noticing that the differences exist, some degree of social outrage, and the firm promise that we will do something about it. Then too little happens, and then a few years later we start all over again.'
It's not that we don't know what to do about it, says Mierau. As early as 1986, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport wrote the so-called Memorandum 2000 - containing excellent plans to reduce health differences, with health goals mentioned no less than 23 times. And the World Health Organization also has a list of ready-made advice. Minimum prices for alcohol, a sugar tax, more expensive cigarettes. Mierau: 'Good health policy requires political courage.'
Apparently more courage than pulling out the wallet for healthcare. Mierau: 'We spend a disproportionate amount of resources on healthcare if we compare that with prevention. Studies from the United States show that the influence of healthcare on public health is about 10 to 15 percent. Healthy food, good housing, clean air, that contributes much more. If you really want to contribute to people's health, you should not work in healthcare.
'In the meantime, our healthcare system is silting up. We have waiting lists and a huge staff shortage. This is because insurers have a duty of care and must therefore provide treatment if an insured person becomes ill. But before someone gets sick, the law doesn't require them to do anything. The pressure to ensure that people do not get sick in the first place is therefore much smaller.'
What difference would it make in concrete terms if these health goals were included in the law?
'In Northeast Groningen, municipalities now want to close swimming pools because they cannot complete the budget. They do not have to account for what that decision does to public health. Targets have been set for the budget for which they must justify themselves. So even though measures are against public health, they are still taken. You can restore that balance with statutory health goals.
'This makes the social objective of government policy more central. A fixation on growth and a balanced budget does not lead to the desired society.'
But don't we already have a prevention agreement? Isn't smoking already becoming more expensive? There are already many measures to improve public health.
'Yet we do not implement quite a few interventions that have been scientifically proven to improve health. We keep ending up in trench warfare, such as around the sugar tax (which has already led to a decline in the consumption of unhealthy soft drinks in, for example, Norway, France and the United Kingdom, ed.), the abolition of VAT on vegetables, or the introduction of a minimum price for alcohol.
'Some pressure is needed to introduce proven policy. That is possible with those health goals.'
In the nitrogen crisis we also have legal targets, and that is not really going well.
'That comparison is nice, because in order to achieve the nitrogen targets, measures were introduced that we knew years ago would help. For example, reducing the speed limit from 130 to 100, or considering the reduction of the livestock population. Precisely because these standards have been introduced, we have started to implement proven effective policies. This legal anchoring ensures that administrators persevere when things become politically complicated.'
You want the government to first identify the health effects of every plan.
'Compare it with an environmental impact assessment, which you also have to submit if you are going to build somewhere. Or take nitrogen: each ministry deals with nitrogen standards in its own way, and Minister Van der Wal is the coordinating minister, so we have also tackled that.
'So yes, you also have to view the Environmental Act through health glasses. We know that a large presence of fast food chains contributes to obesity. For example, the law may state that only a maximum number of snack bars may be established in an area. Or you can include that the food you offer as a catering facility must contribute to healthy nutrition. Of course you can have fries, but it's all about how a company markets them.
'All nudging is now moving in an unhealthy direction. If you order food via Thuisbezorgd, you will receive a message the next day at four o'clock in the afternoon: you are not going to do the dishes, you are going to order! If you do that occasionally: live the dream, go wild. But in the long run it has negative consequences. If you do it every day, the supply should be healthy. You could include that in the Commodities Act.'
Extremely patronizing, say opponents.
'The law stipulates how much salt is allowed in bread and how much fat semi-skimmed milk may contain. If you eat too much salt, no one cares. Too much salt for a long time will damage your kidneys, the law protects against this.
'These health goals also result in a cascade of regulations. Snack bars can continue to exist, as long as they offer healthy food.
'We are not doing anything crazy if we want to return to the obesity rate of the mid-1990s. The Netherlands was really not a health dictatorship at the time. We had chips on birthdays, we got fries at the snack bar. But the supply of unhealthy food has become too great. Coffee is now something that you take as a kind of dessert at three times of the day. There are eateries on every street corner. A sports canteen can only make ends meet if it sells enough fries and beer.
“You want to get rid of the growth that can only exist if it is at the expense of public health.”
People choose their own coffee or chips, don't they? It is not without reason that State Secretary Van Ooijen recently wrote to Parliament that people also have an individual responsibility and that health goals ignore this.
'But doesn't that apply to all laws? If the three of us here want to drive on the highway all day in a Volvo from the eighties and set our heating to 26 degrees, we can do that. But if the sum of individual actions means that we do not achieve the climate goals, measures will follow. The deduction for vintage cars will no longer apply, diesel will become more expensive, and the price ceiling for energy only applies up to a certain consumption. Achieving social goals is always a sum of individual responsibilities.
'Policy can make that easier: through a subsidy for solar panels, or someone to come and remove the tiles from your garden. Then you enable the individual to contribute to the collective goal. This applies equally to health.
'And besides, how individual is that responsibility? A large part of the advertising is unhealthy patronage aimed at unhealthy food. When you watch the World Cup final, you see 22 athletes at the top of their game, but the commercial is for beer, chips and McDonald's. Max Verstappen is a top athlete, but drives around in a Red Bull car. The message is: these people are so fit thanks to our products.
'Imagine you enter our society gullibly, perhaps a bit naively, and you think: this free democratic society has my best interests at heart, and I am going to make the most of it. You haven't left your house yet when you come across a gambling advertisement at the bus stop. Once in the shop at the station, one wall is filled with soft drinks and the other with sweets. And only at the cash register is a two-week-old apple.
'It's like a newspaper full of bullshit, with only a small piece of real news at the bottom of page 23. This is how society is now organized, the unhealthy is dominant. What is individual responsibility worth in a society that so strongly encourages unhealthy eating?'

Load Date: May 26, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")