Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Building something fun yourself - soon it will be allowed
NRC Handelsblad
June 17, 2014 Tuesday


Copyright 2014 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Domestic; Page 5
Length: 702 words
Byline: By our editor Arjen Schreuder
Body


Living environment A new law replaces many old ones and makes construction faster and simpler. The councilor can do more. Does that lead to arbitrariness?
The Hague. The department of Minister Schultz van Haegen (Infrastructure and Environment, VVD) is working on "the largest legislative operation ever". In three years, civil servants have rewritten almost thirty laws in such a way that they can be merged into one law. On Friday, the Council of Ministers agree with the Environmental Act, which should make decision-making about construction simpler and faster and improve the quality of the living environment.
Schultz van Haegen: "We have involved as many parties as possible in the preparation: political parties, but also interest groups and other governments. At the beginning we also asked for and received expertise from the Council of State. I think there is broad support for the principles of the law."
Modernization was desperately needed, the minister said. "These are static laws that do not fit a changing environment." The laws that made the construction of large residential areas possible in the 1970s are the same as those that governments in shrinking areas have to deal with. "Customization is needed."
She gives as an example the impossibility of temporarily housing shops elsewhere, such as during the renovation of the station in Utrecht, because a zoning plan change here previously took six months. This will soon be possible in eight weeks. Or the rule that you can deviate from the designation of a monumental building for five years. "Before you have renovated, you have to leave again."
In addition to shorter procedures, there will soon be more room for municipalities to experiment with projects that are currently not possible. Perhaps for reassurance, they must continue to adhere to "strict standards" in the field of safety and the environment that have been agreed in a European context. But municipalities will soon be able to decide much more themselves about noise and odors. "Take a farmer who retires and has a house built on his land to live there from now on. That house formally falls within the stench circle. But are you not allowed to live there? Didn't he also live on the same property before? It wasn't a problem then, was it? "
As a municipality, you will of course have to take into account national or provincial agreements: for example, whether a high-voltage network is being constructed in an area; or an area falls under world heritage. But much more is possible. Such as in the municipality of Ommen, where, after years of obstacles, a dairy farmer is allowed to build a cowshed next to a camping site, something that was prevented by the zoning plan.
Schultz van Haegen: "If all interests are safeguarded and the living environment is improving, why wouldn't that be possible? This law wants to make things possible. As an alderman you will no longer be able to hide behind rules. You can no longer say to citizens and companies who want something: nice idea, but it is not allowed. As an alderman you now have more room to allow things yourself."
If each municipality is allowed to determine separately whether a plan contributes to the improvement of the living environment, arbitrariness lurks. What is not allowed in one municipality is welcomed as an innovation elsewhere.
Schultz van Haegen: "I prefer to speak of differentiation rather than arbitrariness. Whether sensible choices are made depends largely on local administrators and the municipal council that monitors them. I hope that this law not only makes procedures simpler, but also stimulates creativity. Take a municipality like Zaanstad. Few people wanted to live there in the past. They are now doing everything there to increase the appeal. Look, I hope that administrators will think about how they can make their cities more beautiful and stimulate sustainable initiatives, instead of filling them up with safe but ugly Rabobank buildings. I like that."
The new Environmental Act should result in savings of 600 million euros, especially for municipalities, companies and citizens. This is due to a reduction in the number of plans, visions and regulations, more general rules and fewer permits, removal of the obligation to continually conduct new studies, and digitalization of procedures.

Load Date: June 17, 2014


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")