Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Seeing dig makes digging
de Volkskrant
September 28, 2018 Friday


Copyright 2018 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Economics; Page 26, 27
Length: 1284 words
Byline: MARC VAN DEN EERENBEEMT
Highlight: You can earn money with a residential basement in Amsterdam-West. And so excavators drive back and forth, much to the dismay of local residents.
Body


In front of the door of Kanaalstraat 38, construction grit creaks under Henk van Dijk's soles. On the sidewalk in Amsterdam-West, the former artist and neighborhood activist talks about the many buildings in the neighborhood that are being built with basements, expanded and 'topped' - with a superstructure. 'It's like London here. They turn every square meter of living space into as many cubic meters as possible. They don't give a damn about what that means for the neighborhood.'

Kanaalstraat 38 will also receive such a major overhaul. The strong increase in Amsterdam house prices has led to a huge building boom in the former urban renewal area. Even a complicated operation like excavating a basement is worth it - literally. Digging or deepening a cellar to create additional living space, whether or not in combination with improving the foundation, costs tens of thousands of euros or more. However, the increase in value of the home is usually much greater.

This has been the case for some time in chic Amsterdam South, but in recent years an excavation operation has also been lucrative on the other side of the Vondelpark. Project developers know this, such as the real estate firm that provided five buildings in a row with a residential basement opposite number 38, resulting in, among other things, the adjacent gardens subsidence. Private individuals are also seizing their opportunity. Seeing dig makes you dig.

A family in Kanaalstraat ('no name, our basement is still sensitive') was knocked out of bed by the excavator of a project developer a door away. After which the thought arose: 'We can do that too. Moving in Amsterdam was too expensive for us. You just can't get in between it anymore. So we decided to start digging. We have done our best to limit the enormous inconvenience to the neighbors. That wasn't completely successful, but the damage was minimal.'

Activist Van Dijk protested a week ago with several dozen angry local residents during a meeting of the West district against the flood of construction projects. Since 2015, approximately eighty cellar permits have been applied for per year in the district area. In the South, 130 cellar permits were granted last year alone. Comparable numbers apply for roof extensions, for example as an extra bedroom.

The list of complaints is long: months of construction equipment on your doorstep - from containers to groundwater pumps - clouds of dust due to cutting and demolition work, rudeness and intimidation by contractors and clients, noise from pumps, shouting from construction workers and damage to gardens and houses due to poorly executed construction jobs . Because digging can lead to subsidence, for example by pumping out too much groundwater. And the officials are no match for the cleverness and tricks of project developers and keep issuing permits.

"The benefit of a few is opposed to the powerlessness of many others," district chairman Melanie van der Horst was told by the audience. 'Who protects us? The city is ruled by the market and the municipality does nothing.' And: 'We are at a tipping point. A permit must not only be assessed based on individual interests, but also on the effect on the neighborhood.'

The district chairman acknowledges the problem: 'The change is happening very quickly and the effect is very significant.' The problem for the government, according to her: 'How do you protect the quality of life in a booming city?' That is difficult, she immediately warned the residents. She announces a reporting point for construction nuisance and promises faster intervention by enforcement officials. 'But if you can build, then you can. Even though all those construction projects together are an insane amount.'

In mid-October, the districts will consult with Amsterdam councilor Marieke van Doorninck of Spatial Planning about the consequences of the construction wave. This concerns sub-basements, but also about 'petrifying' the interior space of blocks of houses. Her spokesperson: 'The councilor sees that a tension has arisen between the relaxation of building regulations on the one hand and the increasing pressure on the city as a business location on the other. Maybe we can do something about the simultaneous nature of all those construction projects. Or should we make a distinction between applications from residents and speculators.'

Van Dijk sees this relaxation of the building rules - his business card reads 'BuurtFuist', fighter for the influence of residents - as an additional driver of the building boom. Since 2014, an extension of the house up to about four meters may be built without a permit. This not only saves on paperwork, but makes a new basement even more attractive from an economic point of view. A cellar can be another four meters longer under that extension - a little longer, for the light entering through a 'cuckoo'. This makes the calculation per square meter even more attractive.

He also fears the consequences of the Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2020. This will bundle all existing legislation and regulations on spatial planning. The idea is less government and more room for consultation between citizens. And in that consultation, Van Dijk fears, citizens and civil servants will lose out to project developers. 'And they don't care one bit about what a project means for the neighborhood. They only think about two things: minimum costs and maximum money making.'

The excavators will continue to growl for years to come, he fears. 'And that makes me increasingly angry. Who's the boss here? Politicians say something, but they simply don't do their best. The money leads the way and the civil servants follow behind.' His neighborhood is now called Dixiland, after the well-known mobile toilet houses. The placement of such a blue hut in the parking space in front of the door of renovation buildings invariably heralds a lot of construction nuisance. Last year, someone else gave Kanaalstraat a new name with one sticker: 'Kabaalstraat'.

On hot summer days it was an advantage, that constant temperature of 18 degrees Celsius in the basement of their apartment. And we also really liked their partly underground home in Amsterdam's Kanaalstraat. Purchasing director Ruud Lavrijssen (35) and his wife bought the house four years ago. Since then, they have never had any problems with leaks or moist air in the basement of the house, although the extraction system does turn on briefly after a shower.

The project developer from whom they bought the house had dug out the basement and slightly raised the floor of the ground floor. This is how a single floor became a 'double ground floor house', as the real estate agent recently described it. Downstairs there are two bedrooms. Each has its own daylight window just below the 2.36 meter high ceiling. Lavrijssen: 'Not a single prospective buyer saw the basement space as less than the top floor.'

The couple will soon move with their 1-year-old son to Nijmegen, where she has got a new job. The house has almost been sold, for more than 650 thousand euros. This price puts them in line with the Amsterdam housing market, where houses have become several tens of percent more expensive since 2014. If the buyer wants more than the current 92 square meters of living space, that is possible. An extension can be built on the rear facade without a permit.

This is the ninth episode of a series about rising house prices.

LONDON In London, with its extreme house prices, basements are already a well-known phenomenon. In the firm clay soil they are sometimes several stories deep. Hence the name 'iceberg houses'; Above ground you cannot see how big the houses actually are.

Not a single prospective buyer saw the basement space as inferior to the upstairs

View the original page: page 26, page 27

Load Date: September 27, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")