Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=For example, steel giant Tata wants to reduce its emissions; Significant investments are needed to meet clean production requirements
De Telegraaf.nl
January 24, 2022 Monday 7:48 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; DFT/NEWS; FRONTPAGE; INTERIOR
Length: 1181 words
Byline: Theo Besteman
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


Tata Steel faces an unprecedented task. The ancient blast furnaces are disappearing after persistent protests and political pressure. Hydrogen technology replaces coal. “We are in a big hurry, we want to be ready well before the 2030 deadline.” But there is no certainty yet, as it turns out on the ground.
The hot yellow-red pig iron slides down from the oven at the top of the factory. A little further on the 750 hectare site in Velsen-Noord are the end products from the rolling mill: large rolls of rolled steel, 7 million tons per year.
The Dutch product travels around the world by its own train or moored low-loaders at the quay. The steel is purchased by car builders but also can manufacturers. Along the quay, operators with 25- and 40-ton cranes with enormous grabs empty two gigantic coal ships.
These coals of different types are piled here in addition to iron ore mixing up to seven hundred layers, and those mountains of ore are then scraped away from top to bottom by large wheel diggers. “That broad mixing, including iron ore, is necessary for consistent quality of steel production,” says Annemarie Manger, sustainability director at Tata Steel.
Capture
“But soon this coal will disappear,” the chemist points to the hundreds of meters of high black storage.” Good for just four days of firing up the large steel furnaces. The blast furnace gases are captured and led to the two Vattenfall power stations just outside the site.
September last year, Tata decided, based on the FNV plans, to switch to steel production from hydrogen. “Feasible,” concludes the hired agency Roland Berger. The plan to store its CO2 in the North Sea is suddenly canceled. Ultimately, new DRI technology will soon no longer require coal.
In the years in between, a mixture of gas and 20% natural gas is still required. “There is no certainty yet that we can go to 100% hydrogen,” says energy company manager Peter Hoppesteyn, who acts as a connecting link between the old and new production methods.
There cannot yet be that certainty, says Manger: new permit applications are being submitted and numerous projects are being prepared in parallel with the €300 million improvements already underway in this area. “A lot of technology for the application and scaling up of hydrogen production is still being developed. There is a dilemma between business as usual and testing these major innovations for steel production, which must be as stable as possible. Such ovens,” Manger points out, “cannot simply be shut down for three months.”
Hydrogen new
But Tata Steel must accelerate. Lawyers are calling for closure. The steel giant from Velsen-Noord is under fire on all sides. The National Institute for Public Health and the Environment determined on Friday that the emissions data provided by Tata may be incomplete. There is a gap between measured emissions of metals and carcinogenic suit materials and Tata's reports. Further research should clarify this enormous and unusual difference, according to the province.
At the end of 2020, Tata will scale back toxic 'substances of very high concern'. The government uses a list of 1,655 of these substances, in IJmuiden 178 come from steel production. They are partly captured.
Local residents and interest groups have been conducting proceedings against the largest CO2 emitter in the Netherlands since very high emissions were reported in 2009. The Public Prosecution Service has been asked to initiate a criminal investigation because of the damage to health. At the end of last year, State Secretary Van Weyenberg announced that he would drastically increase the permit requirements in order to reduce Tata's emissions in the environment.
Hole emissions
Tata must comply with the Environmental Act with new permit applications. It invests millions in reducing emissions such as lead, PAHs, particulate matter and heavy metals from the pellet factory. And it says it's taking steps to reduce that pungent odor from the coking plant. But new permits will also be challenged by environmental clubs and local residents. “We understand the concerns, we have to be very transparent about what we do in order to regain trust,” says Manger.
Drastic decrease
In addition, the cabinet wants to increase from 11 gigawatts of offshore wind turbine capacity to 21 gigawatts. Tata ultimately needs about 5 to 6 gigawatts of wind energy to produce hydrogen via electrolysers for steel production. This hydrogen drastically reduces CO2 emissions in IJmuiden.
First Hoogovens 6 will close, combined with a coking factory, then Hoogovens 7. "Although a usual renovation of Hoogovens 6 will still be necessary in 2023," says Manger. That seems illogical, but inevitable if Tata wants to continue supplying steel. Manger: “So it is that complex.”
The Indian Tata Steel took over the Dutch blast furnaces at the mouth of the North Sea Canal from Corus in 2007. The company saw a potential marriage with the Swedish SSAB fail last year. Now the Dutch part of the Tata Steel Group from Mumbai, India, is looking for an independent future for its production with 9,000 employees in IJmuiden with large-scale innovation in hydrogen technology.
“But we don't have all the details yet. We are now consulting with two parties to obtain the data for the design and permit applications. We want to clarify this as quickly as possible,” says Manger.
'Deprecated'
Residents of Kennemerland complain about completely outdated factories and lack of investments from Mumbai. They may seem like old installations, but in terms of production efficiency, Tata Steel is in the global top 3 with lowest CO2 emissions per ton of steel in the rankings of the World Steel Association. Ranked ahead of countless Chinese manufacturers.
Government subsidy is indispensable for the transition to large-scale hydrogen production, says Manger. It hasn't arrived yet. Mumbai has not committed any investments for its subsidiary so far.
Residents of Velsen, IJmuiden, Beverwijk and Wijk aan Zee en Duin therefore remain skeptical about the country's largest steelmaker. How clean will Tata be? This promises an approximately 50% reduction in emissions of toxic PAH substances this year. And approximately 55% less emissions of heavy metals, such as lead, which should have fallen by 70% by 2023. And a 65% decrease in all dust precipitation in the residential environment in 2023, with 85% fewer malodorous odors that year in 2023, with also 35% less particulate matter.
Wash windows
A window cleaning crew still goes into neighborhoods when particles fall. Just like the first graphite rains in 2018, this is now causing protests. Little has changed since then, according to the Village Council, for example.
“It will be quite a puzzle to arrange clean hydrogen production, in addition to the environmental improvements announced in the Roadmap Plus and investments in new factories on the same site,” says Manger. "But it has to. Also for the environment. Not only do we benefit, I think it is ultimately good for the energy transition in the Netherlands.”

Graphic

 
Image, Annemarie Manger and Peter Hoppesteyn of Tata oversee renewal plans., Jean-Pierre Jans

Load Date: January 25, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")