Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=This is how much construction fees cost in your municipality; Municipalities juggle with permits
De Telegraaf.nl
August 24, 2021 Tuesday 3:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; MONEY; DFT; FRONTPAGE; DFT/NEWS
Length: 845 words
Byline: Pieter van Erven Dorens
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


For a building permit for an average home you pay €1,700 in The Hague and €10,829 fifteen minutes away in Oegstgeest, according to research by Eigen Huis into construction fees this year. “Such enormous differences cannot be explained,” says a spokesperson for the interest group. Oegsgeest even added 18% this year.
With the fees you purely pay the costs of the building permit. “You pay the civil servant who started working for you,” said the spokesman. In its annual research, Eigen Huis compared what municipalities charge for a small renovation requiring a permit up to €10,000 and what they charge for a new-build house with a construction cost of €170,000. Such a home costs double, including land costs and VAT.
In 41 municipalities, construction fees increased by more than 10% this year. Costs fell in 14 municipalities, most in Loppersum, Mook and Middelaar, Putten and Zoeterwoude by more than 30%. On average, construction fees in the Netherlands increased by 3% this year.
The first prize for the highest increase in new construction goes to Montfort this year. In the small Limburg municipality, construction fees increased by 53% to €8,469.
Renkum in Gelderland was a leader in small renovations. For this you have to pay €450 to the municipality, no less than 65% more than last year. “At the request of the municipal council, we have made the fees for building permits more cost-effective,” says councilor Joa Maouche. “These permits used to cost less, but then all taxpayers paid the rest through property taxes and the like.”
It is remarkable that the differences in minor renovations are relatively much greater than in homes. In The Hague you pay €100 for municipal permission for a dormer window, in Veenendaal it is no less than €978. In addition to The Hague, the legal costs are also modest in Rotterdam (€163) and Leiderdorp (€155).
The article continues below
At Vereniging Eigen Huis they have already heard many explanations as to why civil servants cost so much more in one municipality than in another. “Some municipalities say: the civil servant works in a building, we take those costs into account.”
At the trade club WoningbouwersNL, there are just as many question marks about the price differences. “The costs are often difficult to understand. You sometimes suspect that municipalities have had budgetary problems or additional tasks on their plates,” says researcher Jannes van Loon. He emphasizes that fees only concern costs incurred for the building permit.
“It is separate from the costs that the government has to incur for spatial development in a new construction project.” For example, in the case of new construction on municipal land, such costs are included in the land price, according to the researcher.
Director Cindy van de Velde of the Eigen Huis Association finds the price differences intolerable. For new-build homes, the difference is thousands of euros. That is why we call on municipalities to use the introduction of the new Environmental Act on July 1, 2022 to harmonize the rates.”
Municipalities may only charge the actual costs for fees, says spokesperson Esther Verhoeff of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. “In principle, fees must cover costs. You are not allowed to earn on it. But you can shift fees, making one cheaper and the other more expensive. Political choices are made regarding the amount of fees. As a municipality, for example, you can keep the sewerage tax, which everyone pays, as low as possible.”
Outliers
According to Verhoeff, this is also reflected in enormous price increases such as in Renkum, Montfort and Oegstgeest. “A specific decision has been made about the rates for those major outliers. We cannot explain this from the system, municipalities can explain it themselves.”
According to experts from the VNG, it also depends on the type of municipality: "A growing municipality with new-build neighborhoods has a relatively large turnover of relatively easy building applications. If you can handle many construction applications for a relatively modest commitment, this will make a difference in average costs.”
Another point, according to VNG, is that one dormer window is not the same as another. “A simple application for a dormer window in a Vinex district with a construction cost of €5,000 pays the same amount of fees as the same application in the same municipality for a dormer window on a monument in a protected cityscape. Naturally, the latter takes more time, effort and costs in the assessment.
The costs that may be charged are all costs related to the granting of permits and the construction technical recovery. This is roughly from the first preliminary consultation to the final construction inspection after completion of the structure. For large projects, this can be a process of many years, from idea to realization. The fees from such a large project all fall in the year in which the permit is applied for, while the costs are sometimes spread over a period of 10 years.
How you allocate those costs from different years to the year of revenue is also something that may differ.

Graphic

 
Image, 'Such enormous differences cannot be explained.', ANP/HH

Load Date: August 24, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")