Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Build houses near Schiphol'; Sijas Akkerman
The Telegraph
July 2, 2021 Friday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 26
Length: 761 words
Body


Sijas Akkerman
Nature and Environment North Holland caused a stir a few weeks ago with a plan for housing construction near Schiphol. While opponents of the airport always complained about the nuisance, it appears that there is room to build anyway, says director Sijas Akkerman. Other flight routes or the closure of runways makes it possible to build new houses.
The municipalities around Schiphol want to build more, but the strict noise standards around the airport prevent that. This has split the Schiphol Environmental Council in recent years, because aviation does not want new inconveniences.
Who wants to live near Schiphol?
"There are plenty of people who want to live and work around Schiphol, and there is also a major housing development target in the Randstad. But the airport means less construction can be done."
Additional housing construction causes more inconvenience, because the airport is not going away.
"In our opinion, the housing shortage in the Schiphol region is more important than the airport. The corona crisis is a good reason for reflection. If Schiphol's runways are used differently, there will no longer be any nuisance in some places around the airport such as Aalsmeer and you can build around 120,000 homes. You can combine this with a different exit route from the Kaagbaan. But in such a way that nuisance does not increase elsewhere."
Reducing the number of take-offs and landings leaves little room for construction. How is that possible?
"That's because all runways are still in use. Then there will be slightly less disruption everywhere around Schiphol, but people will still fly low over homes. Quieter aircraft also provide construction space, up to a maximum of 20,000 additional homes. But more is needed. Adjusting flight routes is also a relatively easy step and good for around 40,000 homes."
What are the consequences of runway closures?
"That means the end of Schiphol's transfer system, because the daily peaks in which the passenger flows are now brought together can no longer be facilitated. We believe that Schiphol can no longer continue in the way it is currently organized. The environment is suffering too much from it, which is why shrinkage is necessary."
However, the houses around Schiphol are still very popular. Then the nuisance won't be too bad, right?
"There will be a new Environmental Act, in which the government will add up all environmental sounds. It was previously said that this means that 365,000 houses in the region cannot be built. This law has now been postponed, but I get the impression that it will be introduced anyway. The consequences of this new law are even more drastic than our plan. So our proposal is: let's see together what is possible."
The abandonment of the so-called hub system is very drastic for KLM and the Dutch economy.
“We think this will not be too bad. I receive emails from worried KLM employees. Their jobs are at stake, I understand that. But I expect that KLM employees will be able to find another job in construction, healthcare or technology. They are go-getter."
The EU is committed to more flying, so aren't we, as the Netherlands, shooting ourselves in the foot with a small airport? Trade, education, services, logistics and tourism, hundreds of thousands of jobs are linked to it.
"I think that's stupid of the EU. In any case, the trend is moving towards lower CO2 emissions. I think it is a shame that the Netherlands seems to be a conservative country when it comes to sustainability. Step forward and innovate, in five or ten years that will create the most jobs."
Schiphol must return to 400,000 take-offs and landings if it does not receive a nature permit. Does this make your plan redundant?
"If no permit is issued, this plan can be used to show where homes could be built. But first of all there is a cabinet formation, in addition to the ministry's decision on the permit. The nitrogen problem is still there, so I expect it will be a difficult story."
For years, the environmental movement campaigned against Schiphol because of the nuisance. Now suddenly houses have to be built. Isn't that also possible elsewhere?
"In recent years, politicians did not want to make choices and just muddled through. You may want to build somewhere else, but where? Then we have to fill up nature reserves around the cities. We don't want that. We are in favor of inner-city construction, and then you are often in the noise zone of Schiphol. We should not cover up the nuisance discussion with tricks, but make choices."
'Quiet aircraft provide construction space'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: July 1, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")