Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='The government simply cannot solve all suffering'
de Volkskrant
April 21, 2023 Friday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 11
Length: 1001 words
Byline: REMCO MEIJER
Highlight: The government must choose more clearly what it will and will not do, says Vice President Thom de Graaf of the Council of State. Laws are often needlessly complicated, but criticism of them is ignored.
Body


Council of State - Interview: Thom de Graaf
The Advisory Division of the Council of State ruled in February that the dispersal law, which must distribute asylum seekers fairly across the Netherlands, is 'unnecessarily complex' and raises 'probing questions' about its feasibility. The Council is the most important advisor to the government and parliament on legislation, but last month it emerged that the cabinet is ignoring its criticism.

The distribution law, a difficult political compromise, is now before the House of Representatives without amendment. 'An advisor must accept that his advice is sometimes not followed. But we are not happy with it," says Thom de Graaf, vice president of the Council. 'This is not good for the quality of legislation.'

The importance of sound laws is a subject for which former politician De Graaf (65) has been drawing attention since he took office four and a half years ago. The annual report for 2022, published on Thursday, also contains warnings about 'needlessly complicated regulations', culminating in the observation: 'Inadequate implementation of laws is a persistent problem.'
Do you feel you are not being taken seriously?
'No, that's not the point. Government and parliament attempt to capture social reality in laws, but the tendency is not to do so in broad outlines. An attempt is often made to overcome even the last, potentially minor injustice. A small balcony will be added here, a back door will be opened there or a shed will be added. With the best intentions, but it makes the law increasingly complicated and implementation increasingly difficult. It is our job to continue to warn about this.'
The fact that the government coalition does not want to renegotiate it is a factor in the dispersal law.
'It occasionally happens that a political wall has been erected that makes it impossible for the cabinet to follow advice. Not every day, not even every month. But where political deals have been concluded, at consultation tables in a specific area, or compromises in a rock-solid coalition agreement, we notice that our advice is difficult to follow. I do see that the government and parliament are trying to seriously shape their legislative task, but I also notice how difficult that is in a heavily fragmented political landscape.'
Are you referring to the situation with twenty factions in the House of Representatives?
'Political governance is complicated at the moment, with so many contradictions and having to work with different majorities in the House of Representatives and the Senate. At the same time, many factions are limited in size. If there are three or five of you in a faction, it is very difficult to find space to delve into legislation, read through it and think it through. As advisors, we can only hope that the country will one day return to more politically stable waters.'

De Graaf was, among other things, party leader of D66 in the House of Representatives, minister, mayor and senator. That career took him to the Council of State in 2018, where, in addition to the Advisory Division, the Administrative Jurisdiction Division is also housed. As the highest administrative court, the Council had to deal with the benefits affair, in which hard paper legislation in daily legal practice turned out disastrous for many people.

In order to achieve more enforceable laws, without undesirable side effects, De Graaf advocates more intensive contacts between administration, legislature and judiciary. Too often there is still 'poor coordination', while the public sector is under great pressure. In the annual report, the Council also suggests that judges should make more use of the opportunity to 'feed back' their knowledge of and experiences with laws to the government and parliament.
Doesn't this feed the image that the judge too often takes the seat of politics?
'No, it's quite the opposite. I think it would be wise for the highest judges, both here and at the Supreme Court, to explicitly signal if laws prove to be too rigid, with too little room for individual considerations. Or if they are not feasible in practice. They should also be able to raise the alarm about laws that lead to an enormous workload for judges.'
With whom?
'To the legislature, i.e. government and parliament, and preferably in a timely manner. Hence my plea for more coherence. Judges must be able to say that certain legislation leads to major implementation problems in practice, without giving a political opinion. On the contrary, the judge then says to politicians: be careful that I don't have to sit in your chair! Last year, the Council for the Judiciary identified eleven 'stomach pain files', involving laws that have an unjust effect in practice. And our Administrative Jurisdiction Division, for example, has expressed concerns about the upcoming Environmental Act. That's a sensible move.'
To relieve pressure on the public sector, you believe that the government should choose more clearly what it will and will not do. Can you give an example?
'I argue for some reconsideration of what the government can do. Financial resources are limited. Manpower is also a problem, given the tight labor market throughout the public sector. This is also felt here, with dozens of vacancies for lawyers to support the administrative judges. If the government promises a lot, but cannot deliver in practice, this damages people's confidence. The government cannot solve all suffering.

'An example is the tendency to financially compensate dissatisfaction without legal obligation or responsibility. Whether it concerns students from the loan system, healthcare workers with post-covid or Surinamese Dutch with a gap in their AOW. All understandable in itself, but not sustainable in the long run. The government must make choices and implement them consistently. We often quote the words of Willem Drees senior: 'Not everything is possible, and certainly not at the same time.' That realization should be heard more often.'

View the original page: page 11

Graphic

 
Thom de Graaf: 'Laws are too often complicated and difficult to implement.'

Load Date: April 20, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")