Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Plan B for Schiphol instead of growth'; Airport should focus on business routes
The Telegraph
February 20, 2021 Saturday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 39
Length: 671 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Body


Airport should focus on business routes
by Yteke de Jong Amsterdam - There must be a plan B for Schiphol, in which the airport mainly looks at what connections our economy needs. A group of administrators in the Schiphol region and environmental group MOB of Johan Vollenbroek are calling for this.
Schiphol reported a loss of €568 million on Friday as a result of the corona crisis. Yet the airport continues to expect growth in the coming decades. "A large Schiphol is based on the Netherlands distribution country. The growth strategy towards 2050 is also based on this, while aviation must be viewed in relation to the total economy that we as the Netherlands want to have. The coherence of things and a vision are missing," says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop. Together with his fellow councilor Kiki Hagen of the municipality of Ronde Venen, he sits in the administrative consultation of Schiphol.
Four tens
This week it was announced that Schiphol will receive a nature permit for 500,000 flight movements, the current maximum. The next government must subsequently regulate growth, as laid down in the aviation memorandum.
Elkhuizen: “A plan B is needed. We want Schiphol that supports the economy, rather than a goal in itself. It is about the quality of the connections, not about yet another flight for €40 to Barcelona." The European Commission does not allow distinctions based on the type of flights, although the cabinet and Schiphol also want to investigate this.
Drivers and residents of the airport can respond to the aviation memorandum and the reorganization of airspace in the coming weeks. On top of that there is the nitrogen and nature policy and the upcoming Environmental Act. According to the aldermen, the airspace revision is there to facilitate future growth. Civil aviation flies from the south of the Netherlands towards Schiphol. "That will lead to even more nuisance in the Groene Hart and Utrecht," says Alderman Hagen. "I actually want to better understand the consequences of the change in the approach route before we decide on that growth."
The councilor also points out the damage to the health of an airport. "In recent years, more research has been conducted into the effects on local residents. You will have to include these insights in the future plans for the airport."
Vollenbroek will contest Schiphol's environmental permit with MOB. "Schiphol can significantly reduce the number of flight movements if more is paid for tickets." Higher airport charges are a solution to make tickets more expensive, but these are determined in consultation with the airlines.
Schiphol CEO Dick Benschop does not want to comment on the shrinkage scenario. He points out that the airport wants to return to 500,000 flight movements in a 'controlled' manner in the coming years, despite the setback in 2020. "Once that has been achieved, we will look further. I expect that growth is possible in exchange for more sustainability." Last year the airport had 227,000 flight movements, the size that advocates of shrinkage would like to see. Global aviation projections still assume a doubling of traffic.
Bankrupt KLM
Wouldn't a bankrupt KLM solve all problems? "KLM will have to downsize and collaborate with one or more partners in the competition against Asian airlines, which, as is known, are heavily subsidized. KLM cannot sustain that competition. This is no different than farmers who also perform poorly in bulk production on the world market," says Vollenbroek.
Vollenbroek and the aldermen see a solution in better use of Schiphol's current capacity, especially now that the plan for an airport in the sea appears to have been scrapped. Elkhuizen: "There has been no thorough, broad social research into runways in the sea. Here, despite all the efforts made and the research we have done, society is once again sidelined."
'Getting bigger is possible in exchange for cleaner flying'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 19, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")