Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Stop the squandering of our landscape'; Landscape architect Adriaan Geuze warns against the loss of valuable space
The Telegraph
May 22, 2021 Saturday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REPORTING; Page 28
Length: 1825 words
Body


Landscape architect Adriaan Geuze warns against the loss of valuable space
According to landscape architect Adriaan Geuze (60), our country faces a 'gigantic task'. A million new homes must be built. Water management must be adapted to climate change. The energy supply must become fossil-free and agriculture must be reinvented. "These issues are comparable in scale and urgency to corona."
When Adriaan Geuze walks through the polder, which he likes to do, he misses the lark. "You no longer hear them, just like many other birds. And the insects are gone. That makes me grumpy." The internationally acclaimed landscape architect and professor can make a connection in a few sentences between the disappearance of the lark and the baby boomer generation's abandonment of the Great Works - the ambitious, often hydraulic engineering projects from the end of the 19th century.
“We are done, the Netherlands is finished, the baby boomers thought. The engineers and practitioners were removed from the ministries in the 1970s and replaced by project managers and lawyers," says Geuze in the reception room of West 8, his design agency for urban planning and landscape architecture, in one of the Fenix ​​Loodsen on Rotterdam-Katendrecht. "The great works of the baby boomers were the reorganization of education, health care, you name it. And they invented spatial planning, an impenetrable maze of official procedures, resulting in the dramatic cluttering of our unique cultural landscape."
You have long been pointing out the clutter of the landscape due to the industrial estates, the elongated data and logistics centers, the windmills and furniture boulevards that mar the horizon. You think the central government should take back control.
“The Netherlands is densely populated. It is impossible that we can continue to grow indefinitely with wind turbines, suburbs, solar fields, new nature, horticultural greenhouses, millions of people: that does not fit, we are too small for that. Let us cherish the precious space, the enormously rich palette of cultural landscapes that we have, and let us ensure that there is management at a high level. Given the immense challenges we face, we cannot leave the landscape to aldermen, deputies, market parties and the lobby clubs whose chairmen - ex-politicians - all have each other's 06 number."
What do those assignments consist of?
"It is 1953, the dikes are breaking. This is how you should see the problems we face. Spatial planning must curb four crises. There is a housing shortage, a million houses need to be built: that is a very major social challenge. Furthermore, we must reinvent the energy supply if we take the task of getting rid of fossil fuels seriously. Because even if we fill the whole of the Netherlands with solar collectors and wind turbines, we still won't have enough energy. We need to recalibrate agriculture: all agricultural areas, whether clay, peat or sand, are now injected with manure. Insects and chicks die in the ammonia, the landscape takes on an industrial look with large stables, tanks and silos. The agricultural machines are so heavy that the soil has to be drained up to 1.40 meters deep, causing the soil to break down: the peat oxidizes, the sandy soils dry out, and the precious clay soils are crushed. We must reinvent agriculture together with the farmers. They must be able to run a normal family business with a stable income so that they can find a wife and their children can succeed them. But such an adjustment takes a long time, perhaps twenty years. Then: the climate changes. We are below sea level and experience enormous rainfall and river water peaks. We must therefore be proactive about our water safety in the coming century. Fortunately, our water sector is well organised, with central management by the Delta Commissioner and the water boards. These four issues are each comparable to the corona pandemic in scale and urgency. Compare it with the reconstruction."
How are we going to approach these projects?
"This is only possible if the national government, just like in water management, has a place with experts who can diagnose these types of tasks and manage them properly. With full discussion in the House of Representatives. So not, as is currently happening, at the consultation tables of civil society with Natuurmonumenten, the ANWB, LTO and all kinds of other lobby clubs. The voter must be directly involved in this perspective on the future. A new football field in Zeist? Can easily be arranged via existing procedures, consultation, the new environmental law and all rules from the Building Decree Act. No problem. But the four tasks I am talking about require an enormous social operation. Comparable to the Great Works of previous generations. There should be a separate national authority for this."
Despite the enormity of that assignment, you are optimistic about the future.
“Yes, because we can fall back on our rich, brilliant planning tradition. Look at how space has been created for the rivers in recent years. The redesign of the northern Waal bank near Nijmegen, for example: everyone there is proud of it. Our beautiful lowlands are half below sea level, but we will be the last country to be flooded. That's not going to happen to us. The battle against the water is our soul, that is the epic that binds us. Máxima was wrong when she claimed that the Dutch identity does not exist, because it does exist: the Dutch are land makers. Not poets or thinkers or gastronomes, we conquer land on the water. And then that beautiful landscape is captured by our painters. That's who we are. The Rijksmuseum with the Night Watch is actually beneath the waves. But we will enforce!"
What does the beauty of the Dutch landscape consist of for you?
“It is so stunningly beautiful. The connotation with the Netherlands is landscape. Ask a foreigner what he sees when he thinks of the Netherlands and he will answer: tulips, windmills, the horizon and the sea. We have more than eighty different cultural landscapes! The bulb soil, the floodplains, the Brabant stream valley, the drifting sands, the peat meadows, the mound landscape, high ground, peat, clay, dunes, high and low, fresh, salty and brackish. And all man-made. This has created an ecology and a person who wants to belong to it. Dutch people identify with the land on which they live; they come from the island of Tholen or from the Alblasserwaard. I think every day: what do we owe this to? I enjoy it, it makes me very happy."
You call the fact that this landscape is being squandered at such a rapid pace the 'betrayal of the baby boomers'.
"They called their parents the Brussels sprouts generation, even though they had experienced the crisis years, the Second World War, the loss of the East Indies, the Flood and the start of the Cold War. Their parents initiated the Delta Works, built cities, and saved for their children's education. That's not a Brussels sprouts smell, it's Napoleon! Following the fiascos around Hoog Catharijne and the Volgermeerpolder, the baby boomers stopped the Major Works and the government services were closed down. They denied that tradition. Write it down: they betrayed it and introduced the Spatial Planning Act, with a taboo on vision. And now we find ourselves without prospects in such a densely populated country with the landscape as a big loser. Spatial planning makes incantations and is not concerned with the unruly reality. Such Frans Timmermans who claims: 'Europe must be climate neutral by 2050'. He can't make that happen at all. As a perspective for action for the Netherlands, such a statement cannot be taken seriously at all."
Aren't you fighting against windmills?
"Even if the Netherlands is climate neutral around 2050, companies like ASML will still say: where will we sit? In Bavaria, where you can see the Alps without any horizon pollution? Or in Eindhoven between the windmills and goat stables with the risk of Q fever? In the Netherlands, people think that the wind turbines will automatically end up in the right place through the subsidy system. Which is not the case. Then the residents say: I can see it, I can hear it, so that windmill will be located two kilometers from the village. The result: the end of the Dutch landscape, of the IJmeer, the Waterland, the Bulb Region, the Groningen vistas. There are entire parts of the Dutch cultural landscape suitable for windmills, but other parts are completely unsuitable. Therefore: you cannot leave the design of our landscape to the lobby clubs. That must be a national task. We are now dealing with pure land spoilage, just like with those enormous data centers of Google and Microsoft in the Wieringermeer and the greenhouses and the logistics centers. They are located on young marine clay, the best agricultural land on earth."
I don't hear you (yet) about the elephant in the room: immigration. The Netherlands is also so full because eighty thousand newcomers settle there every year.
"If you look at this as an engineer, it is a relevant question whether you should treat yourself to eating the landscape in such a densely populated country. Exactly that can happen if you have to build so many extra homes. A simple analysis from the spatial planning sector: we have disadvantaged neighborhoods in The Hague and Rotterdam that we want to upgrade with taxpayers' money. Now you are a farmer in South Holland and you put greenhouses on your land. Migrant workers go to work there. The same applies to international developers who build large logistics halls. Migrant workers also come to work there. They are housed in houses at holiday parks or they go to live in those problem neighborhoods in The Hague and Rotterdam, in far too cramped homes of slumlords where they contract corona. So you see how closely everything in this sector is interconnected. But to return to the initial question: why can't we afford to continue to waste our landscape at this rate? This is partly because we want to live in a country with a high-quality economy. The tech region is now the second pillar of our economy. Then you need highly educated people, including migrant workers from California or Bangalore with their families. They don't want to live in a holiday park or next to a stable. In Brabant it is understood that you have to invest in beautiful parks, a clean environment and culture. See: the Van Gogh National Park. And immediately start building a new city in the sea, off the coast near Monster. You can arrange that in a few years. That should be part of that national task. It is time to put our shoulders to the wheel."
'The battle against water is epic
binds us
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 21, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")