Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Running a comb through rules'; Minister wants to simplify procedures for construction and the environment
NRC Handelsblad
June 28, 2011 Tuesday


Copyright 2011 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Economics; Page 21
Length: 1328 words
Byline: Arjen Schreuder
Body


RESUME
Minister Schultz van Haegen wants to streamline more than sixty laws, a hundred 'administrative measures' and hundreds of regulations into one law. In this way, she expects to save time and money (600 million per year).
COMPLETE TEXT:
"Have you ever tried to build something," asks Minister Schultz van Haegen (Infrastructure and Environment, VVD). Building is difficult in the Netherlands, due to the large number of laws and regulations. "I bought a garden house from the neighbor at home. "That originally belonged to my own house and I wanted to add it back. I worked on that for two years. I had to have all kinds of tanning schedules made."
How bad do you think it is?
"The Environmental Management Act has 236 regulations and has been amended more than a hundred times since it came into effect [in 1993, ed.]. And there are still twenty amendment proposals underway. Many rules were once created with good intentions, but now there are so many that you can no longer see the forest for the trees."
The rules are difficult to understand?
“The rules are complex and unclear. In the Netherlands, every citizen is expected to know the law. This is almost impossible in environmental law. Even the best environmental lawyers have difficulty with it. They see that two laws protect conflicting interests and then do not know which law takes precedence. We are going to sift through it." The minister searches her papers for an example and then reads out. "Almere is building a new Almere Poort district, but during construction the heavily protected beaver settled there. It must not be disturbed The municipality runs the risk of a construction stop."
How should that be solved?
“We still have to think about that. But I would say: let's rely on the circumstances at the time the plan was approved, when there were no beavers."
You expect broad support for this plan, you write to the House.
“Everyone benefits from this. Whether you want to build or create nature. This operation is not a right-wing hobby. This has broad political support. I also notice it in the reactions of deputies of different stripes. They think the same way as I do."
And the environmental clubs?
"Even if you want to achieve something in nature, it is difficult because of all those rigid rules." Reads again in her papers. "A canalized Brabant stream, the Beerze, is being restored to its original state. But since the The floating plantain also occurs in canalization. The stream restoration that is desirable from a natural point of view conflicts with the conservation goals for a species that did not originally occur in the stream." She smiles.
So everyone is for it?
“This is also useful in everyday life. Maybe the only people who will object are the people who have made a career out of all those rules we are abolishing.”
A lot of research is being done?
"I think we can save a lot of money. That is 10 percent on the plan costs alone. That could amount to 600 million euros per year. There will be many more savings on top of that.”
You want more room for 'administrative consideration'. How so?
"During the construction of the Second Maasvlakte, an environmental impact report of 6,000 pages was written." She spreads her arms wide. "Then the Rotterdam city council said: that is such a thick report, it must be correct. No more talking about it! Directors must take responsibility. There are plenty of examples of directors who hide behind procedures."
More room for administrative consideration, also regionally. Does that not mean legal inequality? That you can build something in Winterswijk and not in Groningen? That you will get a noise barrier here, but not there?
“No, because there are national rules for that. There are legal rules for noise pollution and everyone must adhere to them."
So you really have to take the environment into account?
"It is sometimes said that in my frenzy of cleaning, I take these kinds of measures so that I no longer have to protect anything. That is not true. We protect a lot. It just gets easier. And better. So that, for example, sustainability projects are also carried out more quickly. I want to work in a solution-oriented manner. What I don't want is if you want to extend the A15 motorway, for someone to say that is not possible, because there is also a Natura 2000 area there. No, let's see how we can build that road and protect nature at the same time."
You also do not want to do more than what Europe requires. Do we do that that often?
"I remember the discussion about the European water framework directive. We couldn't meet the standards initially because we had designated a lot of small areas instead of much larger areas." She draws a circle with a thick dot as pollution in it. "If a standard is exceeded somewhere in a small area, it is difficult to compensate for that. In a larger area it is easier. We have also had that discussion about air quality. We have created a national air quality program and designated larger planning areas. So that the one point where the standard is exceeded does not have to be an obstacle. become."
But what if you live just next to that one less clean point?
She draws an imaginary line with her arm that descends. "The air has only become cleaner in recent years."
What is the ideal?
“Fewer rules. Time saving. Saving costs. More responsibility for directors. Don't start from what is not possible, but from what is possible. That's the fun of it."
The rules for building in the Netherlands are becoming simpler. Minister Schultz van Haegen (Infrastructure and Environment, VVD) wrote this today in a letter to the House of Representatives. The minister wants one new Environmental Act in which all rules for the environment are bundled. These rules are now spread across more than sixty laws, one hundred AMVBs (General Administrative Order) and hundreds of ministerial regulations. The reduction will result in savings of at least 600 million euros per year. The government also hopes to save a lot of time during construction procedures with this plan, especially by organizing consultation at the beginning of the plans and by conducting more or less similar studies into alternatives less often. Measures that exceed European environmental standards will be withdrawn.
Examples
Restrictive rules - For the new construction of the Utrecht Central train station, the shops had to be temporarily relocated. But this temporary relocation is contrary to the zoning plan. In order to be able to carry out this transfer, a temporary exemption with an extensive procedure is required. The cabinet wants to reduce this procedure from 26 weeks to 8 weeks.
Conflicting legislation - The construction of a cycle path - made possible by coastal widening - in the dune area between Kijkduin and Hoek van Holland is hindered by the nature conservation law. Because the drifting of sand - made possible by the same coastal widening - is a goal of nature policy. The cycle path can hinder this dispersion.
Rigid laws - The municipality of Eindhoven is converting a large former Philips factory site into an area for living, working, facilities and culture. Initially, deviations from the zoning plan that provided for large industry were only allowed for five years. That has now been fifteen years. "It is now more profitable for entrepreneurs to invest in the operation of a monumental building and sustainable development is now more possible," the ministry said.
Restrictive rules - The water boards require the dredging of ditches east of the Reeuwijkse Plassen. But according to the Flora and Fauna Act and the Nature Conservation Act, no disturbance may occur to breeding birds, protected fish species (during winter and the spawning period) and wintering protected birds. As a result, dredging can only take place in September.

Graphic

 
Example of 'restrictive rules': for the new Utrecht Central Station, shops must be temporarily moved from Hoog Catharijne, which the zoning plan does not allow.
Photo Rob Huibers

Load Date: June 28, 2011


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")