Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Where should these people go?; Cancel construction plans for Randstad houses
The Telegraph
June 23, 2020 Tuesday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 12
Length: 480 words
Byline: Ruben Eg
Body


Cancel construction plans for Randstad houses
by Ruben Eg and Yteke de Jong
Amsterdam - House prices are still going through the roof, corona crisis or not. In addition, Schiphol's new noise standards also mean that many of the new construction plans in the Randstad will be cancelled.
Figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics published on Monday show that owner-occupied homes became 8% more expensive in May. The Dutch Association of Real Estate Agents and Valuers (NVM) recognizes the trend of ever-increasing house prices.
Fire letter
"The housing market has a major shortage, and the corona crisis has not changed this," said a spokesperson. From its own figures, the NVM notes that half of the homes sold are still selling for more than the asking price. An emergency plan was drawn up last week. presented for the construction of more than 800,000 homes in the next ten years, but approximately 380,000 of these are at risk of being scrapped due to new noise standards around Schiphol, according to an urgent letter from 52 municipalities and four provinces.
The housing market around Schiphol has been overstrained for a long time, because the municipalities around the airport can hardly build due to the standards related to the noise of take-offs and landings. But these standards will be tightened even further, according to a plan by the Ministry of Infrastructure, based on the new Environmental Act.
New construction is then hardly possible because the quality of life would be 'too poor'. And not only close to the airport, such as in Haarlemmermeer, but also in more distant municipalities, such as Almere. That is one of the major new construction locations for the coming years. “That stricter standard will soon hinder us in housing construction that is still possible. That standard must be lowered, otherwise I have a gloomy outlook for new construction in large parts of North and South Holland. We want to talk to the minister," says deputy Jeroen Olthof on behalf of the signatories.
Aviation note
The government wants to further develop Schiphol, according to the aviation memorandum. "By closing housing construction around Schiphol, the government is taking the step towards the construction of the Second Kaagbaan. This is necessary to partly facilitate that growth," says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop. He assumes that Schiphol will grow to 750,000 flight movements in the coming decades based on the cabinet's growth ambition. The councilor is one of the signatories of the fire letter.
Schiphol Airport reports in a response that it has taken note of the letter. The Ministry of Infrastructure stated in a response that it will be in discussions with the authorities, according to a spokesperson. "It is certainly not the intention that everything will be closed down." Elkhuizen advocates Schiphol in the sea. "Where should those million new residents go if we cannot build?"
New standards Schiphol
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 22, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")