Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=[Dear Editorial Mayors That the cabinet is weak...]*
de Volkskrant
April 15, 2021 Thursday


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion and Debate; Page 29
Length: 594 words
Body


Dear editors
Mayors
The government's erring corona policy is detrimental to support among the population. But what is really shocking is the permanent undermining of authority by mayors, at least those of the big cities, because you don't hear others. It has been said for weeks that they cannot enforce the law because 'their resources have run out'.

The already critical citizen only needs half a word from the mayors and this way you will never get them back in line. It fuels divisions among the population and presents the cabinet with an almost impossible task to maintain some form of regulation.

However much the desire for relaxation is understandable, it is unnecessary for this mutiny to be fought out in the open on media and talk shows. It is time to close the ranks of government. Ronald Stevens, Naarden
Competition
Can messages about the international vaccination competition (Front page, 14/4) be placed on the sports page from now on to improve clarity? Peter de Leeuw, Leiden
Calculate
There was once a fuss that Schiphol was not allowed to expand because it would cause unacceptable noise pollution. But fortunately, a new calculation method for this nuisance was introduced just in time, causing it to disappear like snow in the sun.

Last week, the Netherlands dangled somewhat at the bottom of the European list of numbers of vaccinations. But thanks to a new calculation method, we are now quite ahead of the pack. I am very curious about the content of these calculation methods, but I fear that it is not much more than 1 + 1 = 3. Michaël Vork, Malden
Politics versus citizen
National politicians must take people's problems seriously and a new welfare economy must be created. The same Volkskrant states that Groningen wants to build an industrial solar park in an area suitable for organic agriculture, nature and recreation. This illustrates that national change is not possible without a change in local governance. This is not just about energy transition, but about the balance between many interests. Local governments are under financial pressure. Then the monetary economy often calls the shots in spatial decisions.

An important factor is the difference in power. (Prior) knowledge and resources give local government, industry and project developers a major advantage over the citizen. They must inform, organize and speak out in their spare time. The new Environmental Act does not address this power problem. In the meantime, I'm holding my breath.

Christine Sijbesma, The Hague
Politics versus citizen (2)
Erik Schoppen's article (O&D 14/4) is one big indictment of the cold disinterest of politicians in their voters. With sustainable generation of electricity as a respectable goal, big money, subsidy options and investors play a leading role and the interests of citizens and nature in Groningen are neglected. Elsewhere in the country things are not much better. The shocking analogy with the message in the book Phantom Growth and the recent TV broadcast Scheefgroei in de polder speaks volumes. Rob Riedijk, Nuenen
Max Pam
Perhaps Mr. Pam should put himself in the shoes of someone younger. He is angry about the delay of his second (!) vaccine and blames it on logistical inability. Isn't the goal to protect more people sooner? We have all been inside for a year, Mr. Pam is lucky that he received initial protection so early. Hidde de Vries, Rotterdam

View the original page: page 29

Load Date: April 14, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")