Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Nature is a victim of urbanization'
The Telegraph
May 3, 2018 Thursday
Utrecht


Copyright 2018 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 14
Length: 425 words
Byline: Michiel van
Body


Residents: highways and tourists are a great danger
by Michiel van
Renselaar
UTRECHT - The residents of the province of Utrecht fear that urbanization will ultimately be at the expense of nature in the region. This is evident from a survey that the province carried out in the run-up to the preparation of the Long-term Vision 2050. According to those surveyed, cars, but also tourists, are mainly the culprit.
Nature is seen as the province's greatest quality. The question 'What will make the province of Utrecht a beautiful province for you to live, work and enjoy in 2050, and which qualities are important in this regard?' was answered by 63.8 percent of respondents with 'nature', while 'employment' dangles at the bottom at 12.6 percent.
Provincial residents are proud of nature. 'We have five national landscapes and a beautiful National Park. It's worth keeping that," is one of the responses. Other residents praise the versatility and history of all the greenery.
However, urbanization is lurking, especially because Utrecht is the smallest province in the country in terms of surface area, the respondents fear. “We are dealing with oppressive buildings,” says one resident. 'The natural landscape is under great pressure and that pressure will continue to increase. The province must show courage in monitoring nature on a regional scale,' adds another. The word roof building is also mentioned.
There are many complaints about motorways and their possible expansion. For example, there would be no place in Utrecht where people are really within earshot of roads. “Continue to focus on fast cycle paths for medium distances,” is one of the suggestions.
Sustainability is therefore a top priority for 35.1 percent. Something in which Utrecht should be a leader, it is said. “All policy intentions in the field of environmental planning should be tested for sustainability,” said one respondent.
Tourists are also seen as a danger to nature and quality of life. This is how a resident speaks about Volendam scenes. Another warns about the policies of Amsterdam and Rotterdam, where tourists seem to come before residents. 'Cultivate individuality', is the advice.
The province conducted the survey in preparation for the Long-term Vision 2050. This will be used in drawing up the Environmental Act that will be presented in 2021. 629 people completed the questionnaire. According to the province, the result is therefore 95 percent reliable.

Load Date: May 2, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")