Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='New construction dries up'
The Telegraph
August 17, 2016 Wednesday
Entire Edition


Copyright 2016 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 031
Length: 663 words
Byline: Ertan Basekin
Body


  Slow decision-making slows down permits
by Ertan Basekin and Yteke de Jong
 AMSTERDAM - There is a threat of a significant shortage of new-build homes from next year. The houses are attractive due to low interest rates and continued economic growth, but slow construction planning is hindering new construction. Contractors are currently benefiting from the improving housing market, but the construction sector and analysts expect a brake on new construction production next year. Not enough building permits are being issued to meet demand, according to research by the Association for Developers & Construction Entrepreneurs (NVB). Last quarter, buyers could only choose from an average of three homes, while a few years ago there were ten.
“If this trend continues, we will run out of stock of new-build homes next year. This will lead to major problems, especially in the Randstad," warns NVB chairman Nico Rietdijk. In the past quarter, the supply of new owner-occupied homes amounted to 8,300. That is almost 1,000 fewer than six months ago and more than 6,000 fewer than at the start of the economic crisis. According to Rietdijk, the decline is mainly due to slow decision-making by municipalities and provinces. “There is constant discussion about whether or not additional buildings should be built. The construction planning also leaves much to be desired. In this way, the new construction market is in danger of boiling dry. And if the construction market collapses, it will also be harmful to our economy.” Bouwend Nederland endorses the vision of the developers. “We look to the future with concern. Many churches are only now waking up and seeing that the world has changed. The market demands other homes,” says a spokesperson. According to him, many municipalities are re-examining their plans for this reason. And that is at the expense of speed. The Ministry of the Interior partly recognizes the picture painted by the NVB and Bouwend Nederland. “Many construction plans were halted during the economic crisis. So there is a gap between supply and demand and there is a need to catch up," says a spokesperson. "But it is still far too early to conclude that the new construction market is drying out." The Ministry of the Interior itself is partly responsible for the lower construction pace. The housing associations build less because they have to focus exclusively on their core task of the ministry. In addition, they are additionally taxed by the landlord levy. The construction sector is still living on permits that were issued during the crisis, when there was less demand. “Municipalities and developers have cut back on staff due to the crisis. That is why there is less capacity to develop plans faster," says sector economist Maurice van Sante of ING. “Almost all municipalities follow the mantra of inner-city building. No one wants to go out into the pasture, but at some point they will have to. We will not make it through the transformation of vacant offices and healthcare real estate alone," says the spokesperson for Bouwend Nederland. The Interprovincial Consultation (IPO), the umbrella organization of the twelve provinces in our country, recognizes that there are regions where there is a shortage of new homes. According to Bart Krol, Environmental Act portfolio holder, developers are less keen on inner-city locations. That is financially more expensive than building in the meadow. In addition, developers often want to work in locations where other interests such as landscape, nature or water storage are at stake. “There are plenty of locations where developers can get started. Here in the province of Utrecht alone, 65,000 homes may be built," says Krol. “Let's use those locations first before we designate new destinations.” According to the provinces, consultation with all market parties should provide a solution.
 'Through the stock'
 'Harmful to the economy'

Load Date: August 16, 2016


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")