Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Use and necessity of new Environmental Act is a mystery'; OPINION Eric Meijer, Johan van Oldebarnevelt Foundation
De Telegraaf.nl
October 12, 2022 Wednesday 8:15 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: WHAT YOU SAY; THE MATTER; WHAT YOU SAY; FRONT PAGE
Length: 535 words
Byline: Our editorial staff
Body


“Almost every Dutch person will have to deal with the controversial Environmental Act, which will most likely be introduced on January 1, 2023. This merger of 26 old laws must regulate everything about the quality of the physical living environment. The implementation costs, although not known exactly, run into billions of euros. Environmental services, civil servants, lawyers and project developers are waiting anxiously.
The digital system is crucial in the new Environmental Act. Through this system, citizens can, for example, apply for a permit for their dormer window or project developers can even arrange the permit for an entire residential area.
However, during the test run of this system, many imperfections and ambiguities came to light. This revealed confusion about certain terms such as environmental tax and the question of which government is competent.
Moreover, there do not appear to be enough civil servants available at the municipalities to implement this complex law. As chairman of the Licensing, Supervision and Enforcement (2021) committee, former minister Van Aartsen questions the functioning of the environmental service. Due to the shortage of people, health aspects, for example during the construction of factories - odor, noise and chemical emissions - are difficult to investigate, monitor and convert into a permit.
Concerned
Citizens should already be involved in an important part of the Environmental Act (participation). However, many municipalities have no idea how to approach participation seriously and often omit participation in new projects. Yet municipalities and the Ministry of the Interior are positive about the Environmental Act, while citizens and experts know that the law is shaky and may only come into effect partially in three years' time after the digitalization of all surfaces and procedures in the Netherlands. Not to mention the billions in costs involved.
The law still stipulates that you can claim damage in the event of spatial changes. That possibility practically disappears. Presumably, there are still €800 million in possible planning damage claims for citizens who are victims of apartments and/or residential areas that have recently been built. After January 1, plan damage will be converted into disadvantage compensation and a threshold will be set in law of 4% of the value of the immovable property, so that the possibility of compensation virtually disappears.
Not easier
From the beginning, governments have asked about the usefulness and necessity of this law. There has never actually been a good answer to that. The new legal system has no clear objective and will not be simpler or better, but will be packaged in a complicated IT system. Opportunities to recover damages will virtually disappear. The interpretation of the participation paragraph remains unclear to citizens and project developers wonder whether the weak environmental services can process their applications on time and adequately within this new law. In short, we shouldn't start with it.”
Mr. Eric Meijer is director of the Johan van Oldenbarnevelt Foundation

Graphic

 
Image, Homes under construction in Oud-Beijerland., ANP/HH

Load Date: October 12, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")