Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Priority for The Hague tenant'
The Telegraph
November 29, 2018 Thursday
The Hague


Copyright 2018 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 14
Length: 447 words
Byline: Tanja Verkaik
Body


Binckhorst plans discussed today
by Tanja Verkaik
THE HAGUE - Tenants of social housing must be given priority over rental and owner-occupied homes in the Binckhorst district of The Hague. The PvdA is calling for this today during the council meeting, in which the Binckhorst Environmental Plan is discussed.
For residents of The Hague who live in a poorly maintained housing association, a home on the Binckhorst is an excellent opportunity, says PvdA faction leader Martijn Balster: “Look at the condition of rental houses in Molenwijk and in the Schipperskwartier. The new houses in Binckhorst offer a wonderful opportunity to give people a better new place and at the same time do something about the poor condition of some rental properties in The Hague. So renovate it and then rent it out again affordably.”
Balster is submitting a motion at today's council meeting to get this done. “The Hague corporations are in dire straits, some houses have really been written off. Take advantage of this opportunity now: offer people a better home in Binckhorst with affordable rent. And improve the poor housing stock and make it more sustainable. If people want to return, fine. If they want to stay on the Binckhorst, that is also fine, then homes will become available for other people who have been waiting for an affordable home for so long.”
The Binckhorst Environmental Plan is one of the pilots in which the future regulations of the Environmental Act may already be applied. In fact, it is a zoning plan that offers more options than is currently the case.
“After the adoption of the Binckhorst Environmental Plan, in which the rough frameworks are outlined, we will move to the elaboration phase,” says Group de Mos councilor William de Blok. Tomorrow he wants to focus on more and better support and participation in this elaboration phase for companies, developers and initiators. “We also want the soul of the Binckhorst to be preserved. There must be sufficient space left for the manufacturing industry that belongs to the 'old' Binckhorst."
If the municipal council gives the environmental plan the green light, construction of thousands of homes can start. “The Binckhorst is one of the rare places in our city where this is possible and that is why this large-scale development must be well organised, so that afterwards we can look with pride at a very beautiful part of The Hague,” says VVD councilor Ayse Yilmaz.
Tonight she is calling for the attraction of top architects and more homes in the mid-priced segment in high-rise buildings. “This is one of the last places where we can build on a large scale. We should not lose sight of the architectural quality,” says Yilmaz.

Load Date: November 28, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")