Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge can already take action'
De Telegraaf.nl
April 23, 2022 Saturday 3:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; DFT/NEWS; FRONT PAGE
Length: 1579 words
Byline: Pieter van Erven Dorens and Yteke de Jong
Body


After Minister Kajsa Ollongren sat idle for four years while housing construction stalled, Minister Hugo de Jonge is now also in danger of getting bogged down in consultation rounds and new legislation. This while he already has all the necessary powers to force municipalities to build housing, say administrative lawyers.
Last February, De Jonge presented his National Housing and Construction Agenda, with plans to create 100,000 new homes annually. “The government will regain control of public housing,” the new housing minister promised. For example, work is being done on the new Housing Management Act. That's going to take a while. The text of the law has not even been drafted yet, a spokesperson for the minister said.
But that doesn't matter, says Friso de Zeeuw, emeritus professor of area development at TU Delft. “There are already a number of options for the minister to take control. I don't know what you need more.”
Intervention is most needed at construction sites that remain fallow due to opposition from municipalities or provinces. “In that case, the minister can give a proactive instruction,” says De Zeeuw. “The Spatial Planning Act offers that possibility. The municipality must then adapt the zoning plan to the content of the instruction. De Jonge does not need a new law for that.”
Destination plan
But that designation is certainly not the only means of power. De Zeeuw: “If the municipality resists, the integration plan will be discussed. The government can then draw up a zoning plan itself. Another instrument is the national project decision, which is already used for energy supplies.”
De Zeeuw attributes the fact that Ollongren and now De Jonge hesitate to use their power to the 'policy philosophy' that the government only intervenes in lower levels of government when absolutely necessary. This is also what Rogier Kegge, assistant professor of constitutional and administrative law, says. “This reluctance is strongly expressed, especially by liberals. The CDA is somewhat more inclined to intervene, social democrats even more likely.”
Also according to Kegge, De Jonge already has all the weapons in the cupboard. “It does not depend on the instruments, but on the role that people take. At the ministry they have been watching in amazement at how things are going in the country for ten years.” Kegge thinks that attitude is somewhat ingrained there. “The task is to plan and make policy, not to dig in the mud yourself. But that won't help you combat this housing crisis.”
Kegge states that De Jonge will not achieve this with his housing and construction agenda alone. “That is a very soft policy. If you only write down that 100,000 homes must be built, the municipalities of Amersfoort and Zaandam, to name a few, will not necessarily build more homes.”
In recent years, the government has rarely or never used force to enforce housing development. In 2020, the House of Representatives adopted a motion in which then minister Ollongren was asked for a proactive designation for the Utrecht construction locations Rijnenburg and Reijerscop. The minister responded that Reijerscop was not eligible for residential development due to its landscape value, while residential development near Rijnenburg would put too much pressure on the existing road network. She left the decision-making to the next cabinet.
Leiden scientist Kegge thinks that discussion about housing construction should start with consultation. “It is ideal to sit down with municipalities and make agreements. If the municipality is silent too much, you can give proactive instructions. If the municipality does not do anything about this, an integration plan will be drawn up.”
Such a zoning plan made from above is quite a job for a ministry, says Kars de Graaf, professor of administrative law at the University of Groningen. “It requires a certain expertise. And knowledge about the area for which you are going to draw up such an integration plan.” In principle, with an integration plan, the arrangement of consultation procedures and legal settlement falls on the shoulders of the government.
Tools
De Graaf also believes that De Jonge's toolbox is already well stocked for identifying housing construction locations. “I think he is able to do that, through a proactive designation or an integration plan. It must be a matter of national importance, but you can argue that with the current housing shortage.”
According to the professor, administrative consultation is preferable to maintain good relations. “And then he has a big stick behind the door. My cautious opinion is that you sometimes need tough instruments to get through from higher to lower levels of government.”
But even then it can take a long time before a residential area is built, says De Zeeuw. “It takes roughly 1.5 years to draw up a zoning plan. That is the turbo procedure. Then you get the legal procedures.”
That's why he doesn't expect miracles. “A lot of time was lost due to Ollongren's passivity. Hugo cannot catch up on that on his own.” According to De Zeeuw, the new housing minister will probably not reap the fruits of his work himself. “That is a standard frustration of housing ministers, that you only open projects that your predecessor has started.”
Stompetoren
In Alkmaar, the province of North Holland is blocking construction plans on the east side of the city at a location that was designated for housing decades ago. The province wants to stick to building within the city limits of Alkmaar. The province also introduced the term 'Protected provincial landscape', which makes it even more difficult to designate agricultural land for housing development.
According to Alkmaar municipal councilor Gosse Postma (CDA), small centers that the province also has are hardly taken into account. The province says that 13,000 homes can be built in Alkmaar.
A few weeks ago, Postma went out with Minister De Jonge to impress on him what, in his view, the province constitutes a 'nuisance power'. “The province is conducting mismanagement at the expense of home seekers. The most unfortunate thing is that it affects the low and middle income people.”
The province confirms that construction in rural areas may only take place once all other options have been exhausted, according to a spokesperson. But it is cheaper to build in the meadow than in the city. The Hague must bypass the province, otherwise a social drama will arise, says Postma. “All villages and centers in North Holland are aging due to this mismanagement, causing club life to disappear and schools to die out.”
Blockade
Eemvallei can become a new district near Almere, on the territory of Zeewolde. Builder Heijmans and developer AM housing association Alliantie presented a ready-made plan for a maximum of 50,000 homes. But the province and the municipalities of Zeewolde and Almere are blocking it. If there were the green light tomorrow, the first homes could be completed in five years, says Maarten van Duijn of Heijmans. “Almere is sticking to the original plan, which provides for detached homes. If the minister wants a lot of affordable housing relatively quickly, our plan is an excellent opportunity,” says Van Duijn.
But during a working visit, the minister hinted that he would keep an eye on it. The province and Almere are difficult about the accessibility of Eemvallei, which is located on two highways and can be provided with public transport via a bus lane. Deputy Jan de Reus of the province of Flevoland would rather focus on Almere-Pampus, he says in a response. But this first requires a metro line costing billions through the IJ, which will not be ready for fifteen years at the earliest. A bus lane for Eemvallei is cheaper, according to Van Duijn. Almere says in a response that it is 'still not convinced' of Eemvallei.
Minister's response
Minister Hugo de Jonge says in a response that he first wants to make agreements with provinces about their share in the housing construction task. Only when things really go wrong does he want to resort to instruments to enforce housing development. “Where necessary, I am prepared to use my authority, but this must be done carefully and after the other intervention options have been exhausted.”
The minister wants to reach an 'indicative target' with provinces before June 1 about the numbers and types of homes. “Provinces then translate these agreements to municipalities. A definitive target must be in place by October 1 and the regional housing deals will be concluded in the fourth quarter.”
The goal is to achieve 900,000 new homes by the end of 2030, by accelerating housing construction to 100,000 new homes per year. De Jonge: “The agreements are not without obligation. We monitor progress and agree on how we will make adjustments if progress stalls, via an intervention ladder that does as much justice as possible to the division of responsibilities between the government, provinces and municipalities.” In short, the policy principle 'decentralization, unless' remains intact.
De Jonge says he will show his teeth if necessary. “Sometimes extra guidance and perseverance is needed, for example to make a decision if there is an impasse over a location. This is certainly possible to some extent via the Spatial Planning Act and the Environmental Act. But the legal instruments are the final step on the ladder. Speed ​​is paramount.”
According to him, the Public Housing Management Act is necessary after all. “We must further fill the toolbox with instruments that are necessary to further improve the possibilities for taking control.”

Graphic

 
Image, Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing) has the option to intervene at construction sites that remain fallow due to opposition from municipalities or provinces, ANP/HH

Load Date: April 23, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")