Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ank Bijleveld's war
de Volkskrant
November 25, 2020 Wednesday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion and Debate; Page 27
Length: 730 words
Byline: MARCIA LUYTEN
Body


Marcia Luyten column
Defense Minister Bijleveld sat behind her 'kitchen table' on Friday morning for a meeting of the EU Defense Ministers. Two years ago, the minister warned that the Netherlands must 'get rid of naivety'. At WNL on Sunday she said that the Netherlands is 'at war' with the Russians, a 'cyber war'. Bijleveld then said that the Dutch defense has its own Cyber ​​Command. "I have offered to NATO that we can deploy our cyber soldiers." It all sounded very contemporary.

At the start of the meeting on Friday, the minister posted a tweet with a screenshot of the online EU meeting: the High Representative for Security Policy Josep Borrell, a smiling Bijleveld, the entire regiment of European defense colleagues and at the top of the address bar the login to the meeting with five of the six digits of the code.

Tech journalist Daniël Verlaan was also behind his screen. He investigates online crime and his book I know your password was recently published. The RTL journalist saw Bijleveld's tweet. Grinned at the login details in the address bar - and assumed the EU meeting was secured with multiple locks. There was no need to guess a password, just try out a number. There his bewildered and cheerful head appeared next to that of the defense ministers. A laugh of disbelief boomed through the online meeting. Josep Borrell stammered: 'You know you are committing a criminal offence?' Ank Bijleveld's face was not visible.

Bijleveld performed an important service for the Netherlands and the EU. She sacrificed herself to demonstrate digital nonsense. That of himself, with that photo on social media. That of the Ministry of Cyber ​​Commandos, which allows the minister to do her thing online. That of the European Union, with such a lack of security.

The real drama is that the government is failing to automate its core tasks. The search terms 'ICT' and 'fiasco' yield a breathtaking series of failed government projects.

The fact that a parliamentary committee wrote a damning report in 2014 about failing, money-consuming automation changed little. Four years ago, the Ministry of Defense discontinued the most expensive IT project to date. (Almost 1 billion euros gone.) But the IT misery is everywhere. At the Food and Consumer Product Safety Authority, at the introduction of the Environmental Act, at the computerization of the Basic Registration, at the crime registration at the Public Prosecution Service, and the information systems of the GGD appear to be unsuitable for a pandemic. In the Defense Vision 2035 that Bijleveld presented last month, the minister said he needed 13 to 17 billion euros to turn the army into a 'smart, high-tech' organization. Taxpayers can hope that part of this will be spent on top ICT professionals who are paid well above the standard.

Because a young IT professional who graduates from the American MIT or another top university is met at the exit by large tech companies. The Googles and Amazons of this world are ready with a contract for a few million dollars a year. They skim off the top. I imagine that the sub-top will go to the companies that carry out large ICT projects for the government. They also pay a lot.

Unless the government mainly employs idealists who are satisfied with a fraction of the salary they earn in the business world, the state will have to make do with not the very best IT professionals.

The fact that the state is lagging far behind the market is evident from the boulevard of broken IT dreams. When the government as a buyer is less smart than the builder of its information system, when top officials do not understand ICT, there is little chance that it will order exactly the right thing. And she easily sells tubers for lemons. Billions wash away. In this Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are missing opportunities. And we miss the dangers.

I thought about the interview last Saturday in this newspaper (First, November 21), with disinformation expert Nina Schick. She warns that we still have a while to regulate synthetic media such as deepfakes. After that, it is forever impossible to determine whether what someone says or does on screen was actually said or done that way. Just a little while longer.

I didn't find it reassuring.
See that state boulevard of broken IT dreams

View the original page: page 27

Graphic

 
Marcia Luyten is a journalist and writer.

Load Date: November 24, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")