Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Asylum hotel Tubbergen sows unrest within VVD: 'Worthless and unworthy of liberality'
De Telegraaf.nl
August 17, 2022 Wednesday 6:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 785 words
Byline: Inge Lengton and Mike Muller
Dateline: THE HAGUE
Body


The cabinet decision to start in an asylum hotel in the Twente community against the wishes of the municipality of Tubbergen is causing dissatisfaction in the VVD. The Limburg department has written an urgent letter. Other liberals are also stirring.
In the Limburg fire letter, fourteen local faction leaders try to convince faction leader Sophie Hermans and MP Ruben Brekelmans that sidelining municipalities is counterproductive. “The support for receiving asylum seekers is drastically decreasing with the current working method. It doesn't sit well with us if our constitutionally autonomous position is trampled upon.”
'Rack is out'
The fact that the government is now sidelining municipalities through the Environmental Act is certainly not appreciated. “Decisions as to whether an AZC fits our territory are up to us. Our municipalities are cracking under the high influx figures. The stretch is out. The cabinet really needs to get the matter under control itself.”
But Hermans allows the cabinet to switch to a remedy by accommodating asylum seekers in municipalities via the Environmental Act, even if they do not want that. “The point is: what is the alternative? That is that people are sleeping outside.” The municipality of Tubbergen has the scoop. With the State elections around the corner, the VVD is once again antagonizing its own supporters.
The text continues below the photo.
Several former ministers criticize both State Secretary Van der Burg and faction leader Hermans, who in their view fail to tackle the problem at its root. “That does not happen, because they are in a coalition with D66 and CU,” it said. “The VVD is still the largest, but the question is for how long.” Sophie Hermans really needs to show her teeth now, one thinks. “The VVD has traditionally been against unbridled immigration. If you, as a party, hold the controls for too long, you dilute your own position. If you don't correct that, you will pay the price," he said.
'Completely done with this cabinet'
In addition to the Limburg department, other local departments are also distancing themselves from the power grab in The Hague. “It is a shame to sideline the local democracy of Tubbergen in this way. That is far below standard," says VVD member Reinier Geerligs of the Rijssen Holten department. “Forgot the VVD election programme?” he sneers. Joris Poffers, party leader of VVD Dinkelland, is "completely done with this cabinet." “Worthless and unworthy of liberalism.” Oldenzaal and Rijssen department: “If this becomes the course, then the end is really lost. The assignment was to improve trust in politics, but unfortunately with these types of decisions things only get worse.” An active VVD director says that 'everyone is angry'. “Next week it will all go wild. The Limburg urgent letter to the party leadership has been sent out, but this will come from more provinces.”
Former VVD faction leader Mark Raat from Medemblik, who also tried to give the party ideological feathers during the last congress, heaves a sigh. “It is truly inconceivable that the VVD has allowed it to get to this point. To make you despondent.” The liberal: “This is yet another example of our party's credibility problem. On the one hand, we have been calling for years that something must be done about the far too high influx of asylum seekers, and on the other hand, we are allowing the problem to get bigger and bigger. While we have already had several State Secretaries in this post. Each and every one of them exudes an attitude of 'we are standing there and watching'.” According to Raat, urgent measures are needed to limit the influx. “Starting with safe landers. Also allowing people who are not given status to actually leave. This way you can at least help real refugees properly and maintain support.”
'Just had to leave feathers'
Former Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal would have liked to see his party do more in the area of ​​asylum during the formation. “We just had to let go of feathers,” he mourns. Rosenthal co-wrote the VVD election programme, which contains alternatives if an asylum crisis breaks out. “I see far too little of that.”
The text continues below the photo.
Coalition party CDA is slightly more critical. Member of Parliament Evert Jan Slootweg wants a 'fair distribution' between all municipalities. “As far as the CDA is concerned, this is initially done in close consultation with the municipality and always with an eye for the local situation. The fact that this step is being taken towards Tubbergen raises questions for me because I understand that the municipality has helped to find other solutions that better suit that local context.”

Graphic

 
Image, Party leader Sophie Hermans (VVD), ANP / HH

Load Date: August 18, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")