Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Trade fair week
NRC Handelsblad
April 24, 2021 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: ECONOMY; Page 4
Length: 807 words
Byline: Egbert Kalse

Vincent Sondermeijer.

ANP, Reuters.
Body


ABSTRACT
The stock exchange week highlights the most important developments in the financial markets of the past week.
COMPLETE TEXT:
MPs often make laws more difficult and complex. Each exception makes the law more difficult to implement and understand
Maarten Camps Chairman of the board at the UWV benefits agency
AEX index 715.77 points | -0.1%
The AEX index lost 2.5 percent of its value on Monday and Tuesday. Especially on Tuesday, many AEX funds were in the negative, such as Shell and ING.
In the days that followed, the index recovered, closing on Friday afternoon at almost the same level as a week earlier. Strong results from companies such as Heineken and ASML provided the impetus for that recovery.
Risers of the week
1. KPN + 6.5%
2. Heineken + 4.8%
3. Adyen + 4.4%
4. ASML + 3.3%
5. DSM + 1.3%
Heineken presented its first quarter results on Wednesday, and they were better than expected. In advance, analysts had assumed that the brewer had sold less beer. Instead, the volume of beer sold remained the same. Investors responded enthusiastically to that news. Heineken continues to suffer from the corona measures. In Europe, sales fell by approximately 10 percent on an annual basis.
Fallers of the week
1. Shell - 4.4%
2. Randstad - 4.2%
3. Unibail-Rodamco-West. - 3.9%
4. ASR - 3.9%
5. ING - 3.3%
In the quarterly figures that temporary employment group Randstad published on Wednesday, barely any traces of the corona crisis were visible. Turnover was slightly higher than last year at 5.5 billion euros. The company expects significant growth in the near future. Investors were not impressed, because Randstad had already announced in January that things were going well.
Last year, the government seriously considered buying part of HEMA for 50 million euros and thus save the ailing department store. The emergency measure would have to be taken if HEMA could not reach an agreement with creditors and there would be no other option to save it. HEMA then threatened to go bankrupt,
The new Environmental Act, which combines many existing rules, threatens to become so complicated that large construction projects are jeopardized. The large cities, which must make an important contribution to a solution to the housing crisis in the coming years, are particularly concerned about this. The law is intended to make construction easier. There are fewer strict rules, procedures are being digitized and there are more options for arranging permits yourself.
The United States virtually doubled its climate ambitions this week. By 2030, the world's second largest polluter (China is number one) wants to reduce its CO2 emissions by 50 to 52 percent. President Biden announced this at a virtual climate summit. Other countries have also tightened their climate goals. Europe wants to emit 55 percent less CO2 by 2030.
The government is ignoring advice from the financial supervisory authority AFM to register student debt with the BKR. However, this does not bring a home for young people any closer.
This week, ABN Amro accepted a settlement of 480 million euros for negligence in the prevention of money laundering. The bank is trying to close this negative chapter, but this cannot yet be said for three directors from that time. Former ministers Gerrit Zalm and Joop Wijn and former director Chris Vogelzang may still face prosecution. The Public Prosecution Service is investigating their role as manager during that period. Zalm and Vogelzang immediately resigned as supervisory director and director respectively at Danske Bank.
4.3 billion euros
The global shortage of computer chips significantly increased the demand for ASML chip machines. Turnover rose to 4.3 billion euros in the first quarter. For the whole of 2021, ASMl expects a 30 percent increase in turnover.
JP Morgan, the main financier of the plan for the new international football competition Super League, now distances itself from the plan and claims to have 'misjudged' how the project 'has fallen' in the football world. This means that the plan, which caused a lot of commotion at the beginning of this week, is definitively off the table. Originally, twelve top European clubs supported the proposal, but after fierce criticism from football fans and associations, support quickly crumbled. The American bank JP Morgan would finance the starting capital of 3.5 billion euros.
For some of the tens of thousands of café and restaurant owners in the Netherlands, the brewers (Heineken, Grolsch, AB InBev and Bavaria) are more than just beer suppliers: they are also their landlord. Anyone who rents such a building will receive less discount on the beer price, some entrepreneurs noted. They went to court, but were unsuccessful.
Composition Egbert Kalse and Vincent Sondermeijer. Photos: ANP, Reuters.
Link to PDF

Load Date: April 23, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")