Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Home Affairs suppressed criticism of the law
NRC
June 10, 2022 Friday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 2
Length: 509 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
environmental code
Whistleblowers have reported to the Senate that the ministry is pushing aside criticism of the introduction of the Environmental Act.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The top officials of the Ministry of the Interior have tried to suppress internal criticism of the introduction of the Environmental Act. Civil servants, hired self-employed people and external software suppliers were put under pressure to portray that the introduction was going well. Criticism is hushed up or must be kept private, including in communication with members of the Senate.
Several whistleblowers have said this to members of the Senate. Before a debate on the law last Monday, senators received five reports from whistleblowers, confirms Senator Saskia Kluit (GroenLinks). "We receive signals from self-employed people at the ministry, software suppliers, but also from municipal officials who in practice have very different experiences than what we formally hear, but are not allowed to talk about them."
Secretary General Maarten Schurink has announced that he wants to enter into a discussion at his ministry about "the limits of ethical escalation behavior", says his spokesperson. According to him, civil servants can also report signals of such behavior anonymously, if necessary via the internal whistleblower scheme. Schurink responds with this to the questions about those whistleblowers from the Senate.
If more reports are received regarding this law, the Senate will be informed, according to the spokesperson. The Senate has yet to decide on the effective date of the law.
The Environmental Act must cover all legislation in the field of spatial planning and environmental permits. This requires local rules and zoning plans to be linked to a national database, which has been going wrong for years. The introduction of the law has been repeatedly postponed.
"Are you good at lying?"
There are plenty of signals that things are going wrong in practice. The trade magazine Domestic Administration writes this week about the culture at the ministry as a "permanent good news show". Reluctant civil servants are intimidated. "Are you good at lying?" a person involved was asked just before a presentation in the House of Representatives. ,,No? Then let's ask someone else."
Nevertheless, Minister Hugo de Jonge (Spatial Planning, CDA) stated in the Senate last week that it is responsible to introduce the law in January 2023. A majority in the Senate doubts this, including GroenLinks. Kluit: "What the minister says is at odds with what we hear from practice." De Jonge did not receive the green light on Tuesday. A planned debate on the introduction of the law was postponed until after the summer recess.
Senator Peter Nicolaï (Party for the Animals) on Thursday created a hotline for civil servants who feel they are victims of intimidation practices at the ministry or who had to provide misleading information about the Environment Act to the House.
What the minister says is at odds with what we hear Saskia Kluit, Senator GroenLinks
Link to PDF

Load Date: June 9, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")