Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Farmers are agitated in The Hague: 'Land is being taken from us'; Anger about new Environmental Act: 'Salting Schouten'
De Telegraaf.nl
November 17, 2020 Tuesday 10:50 AM GMT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 553 words
Byline: Martijn Schoolenberg
Body


Hundreds of farmers demonstrated against government policy at Koekamp in The Hague on Tuesday. The corona measures were ignored and the Utrechtsebaan was blocked. “There may be a pandemic, but the biggest plague in the Netherlands is in the House of Representatives!”
View the tweets from reporter Martijn Schoolenberg at the bottom of this message.
Loudly honking, the first hikers headed towards the Benoordenhoutseweg, where they are allowed to park, early Tuesday morning. That doesn't go smoothly. For example, there was an incident in which dozens of farmers drove through the central reservation, towards a line of police vans. A few hikers managed to slip through that blockade. The farmers felt that they had to park too far from the protest location. After consultation, they were allowed to continue and park their vehicles a little further away. Eventually they even parked on the Malieveld.
This also happened last year during the protests. Then the field was damaged. Tractors, trucks and pickup trucks left deep ruts under the trees. The lawn itself had to be reseeded. This was repaired at the expense of companies in the agricultural sector.
As a precaution, military vehicles were stationed on the road to the Binnenhof. Two farmers were arrested. One of them tried to flee from a police bus with his tractor.
environmental code
The farmers are demonstrating against the new Environmental Act, where they fear losing their permits, as well as against the nitrogen measures. “The land will soon be taken from us,” says Mart Coolen, who has a poultry farm near Venlo. “If we are unlucky, we will have to give up our land for nitrogen compensation at a price that is far too low,” adds Roel Peters. This can happen with land near the so-called Natura 2000 areas.
It especially bothers the farmers that if their entire farm is bought out, they are no longer allowed to start a new farm. “I want to continue for another 40 years,” sighs Peters. “In the meantime, planes can continue quietly with a lot of emissions.”
Koekamp
In the meantime, the stage at the Koekamp is quickly filling up with farmers. The hung banners have texts such as 'This communist takeover policy in The Hague is contrary to every law and rule' and 'KLM remains on its feet and all the farmers are going to hell, Schouten is gone.' The one and a half meter distance is not observed, while no one wears a face mask. Calls from the police to comply hardly help.
“We would have liked to stay at home because of corona, but then the law would be pushed through and we will soon no longer be there,” says Sieta van Keimpema of FDF firmly. “There may be a pandemic, but the biggest plague in the Netherlands is in the House of Representatives.” Loud applause and honking sounds.
King
At the end of the morning the procession leaves for Huis Ten Bosch, for the king. That's actually where the original demonstration was planned. The idea was that the king could stop the new Environmental Act by not signing it. However, that demonstration was banned by the municipality.
Instead, the farmers will hold a parade with their tractors. When leaving the Malieveld, they try to cross the Utrechtsebaan, which leads to blockages and near collisions with oncoming traffic.

Load Date: November 17, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")