Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Builder Heijmans sells 8% fewer homes
De Telegraaf.nl
November 1, 2023 Wednesday 7:20 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; DFT/NEWS
Length: 405 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


Construction group Heijmans sold 8% fewer homes in the third quarter than the year before. This is evident from a trade report for the third quarter. This is the result of 'difficult market conditions', according to the contractor.
1201 homes were sold compared to 1304 in the same period last year. The third largest builder in the Netherlands reports that the order book remains 'strong' at €2.6 billion. The company has raised its profit forecast to €120 million for the full year due to the release of a reservation from a construction dispute.
Lead time
The number of building permits is declining in the Netherlands due to a battery of laws and regulations, which means that there are few 'fast locations' available. The lead time between a permit and completion is approximately eight years, but that did not stop Heijmans from opening a new housing factory for timber frame construction in the past quarter. Many construction companies invest in factory construction, but some are at risk of exodus due to a lack of locations to set them up. The first 88 homes from the Heijmans factory have now been installed in Eindhoven, the Brabant builder reported on Wednesday. Housing associations are building more again and consumers are also more enthusiastic.
“Home sales to institutional investors have fallen,” the construction company said. Major investors have been avoiding the Netherlands since outgoing housing minister Hugo de Jonge reduced the maximum rental income and increased the transfer tax at the request of the House of Representatives. The requirements regarding the number of affordable homes have also been increased, meaning that large projects in which residential investors traditionally participate can no longer be calculated. The higher interest rate also plays a role in this. Major investors are therefore choosing abroad.
Gardens
Heijmans took over the smaller builder Van Wanrooij, which has a number of concrete construction projects, CEO Ton Hillen reported to De Telegraaf this summer. “Home sales at Van Wanrooij are satisfying because their portfolio largely consists of houses with gardens in suburban areas. There is more demand for that," the report states.
According to Hillen, the Netherlands is ready for a 'clear spatial framework' for the choice of housing, nature and agriculture. However, the new Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, and municipalities are feared to cause chaos in the construction sector.

Graphic

 
Image, Heijmans at work in Gouda, photo ANP

Load Date: November 1, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")