Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Building with less hassle
NRC Handelsblad
March 18, 2016 Friday


Copyright 2016 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Economics; Page 6-7
Length: 904 words
Byline: By our editorJos Verlaan
Body


Environmental Act Municipalities are anticipating the new Environmental Act on which the Senate will vote. That law should limit bureaucracy. "Civil servants have to think about the 'state of the city' in 40 years."
The Hague. Project leader Jeroen Traudes of the municipality of Leiden calls the introduction of the Environmental Act radical for the entire official organization. Civil servants who are used to running their own business, for example the environment, now have to work together with their colleagues from nature management. Or that of spatial planning. The law imposes "different, more drastic requirements on civil servants when thinking about the future of the city," says Traudes. "Civil servants must dare to think about the 'state of the city' in 40 years."
Leiden already works with the Environmental Act, which is expected to be introduced nationally in 2018. The law, which will be voted on by the Senate next week, bundles all legislation and regulations for spatial planning, the environment and the living environment.
This should result in less bureaucracy and faster procedures for municipalities. The Crisis and Recovery Act introduced in 2010 will be included in the new law. In practice, this should mean that industrial estates, for example, can be more easily converted into residential areas, without the hassle of complicated objection procedures and participation.
Minister Melanie Schultz (Infrastructure and Environment, VVD) effortlessly guided the law through the House of Representatives last June, only GroenLinks and the Party for the Animals voted against. The Senate was more critical this week, but Schultz does not have to fear rejection of the law.
It does not end there, because there will be many additional rules, for example about the powers of provinces and municipalities. About environmental criteria for all municipalities. Or about the way in which objection periods and consultation procedures are arranged.
Had city conversations
But there are already plenty of experiments with the new law. Leiden is working with nine neighboring municipalities on a so-called environmental vision. Just as the structural vision is now the basis for the zoning plan, the environmental vision is the basis for the future environmental plan. This will then replace the current zoning plan.
 Traudes says that the new environmental vision goes further than the structural vision. "The environmental vision is about the organization of society, including the environment, sustainability, nature protection, the long-term consequences of aging, education, sustainability and mobility. How do Leiden residents want to grow old? Should the city invest further in high-quality education and what is required for this?"
 Officials set out in Leiden to ask how residents would like to experience their city in 2040. And what the government must do to make that possible.
Utrecht is also working on an environmental vision based on the new law. City discussions and 'initiative cafés' are organised. "These city conversations are discussions about themes that we are working on as a municipality," says planner Martine van Rijn of the municipality of Utrecht.
There too, the law means an official cultural change. “Will civil servants from different disciplines be able to work together? Civil servants who have never looked over each other's fence before now have to do so. Those who now deal with spatial planning at city hall will soon also have to know what their environmental colleagues are doing with air pollution and traffic. And vice versa. This requires a cultural change that must become a reality in 2018."
Experts point to gaps in the law. Because who has the say in conflicts has not been determined, says assistant professor Daniel Korsse of Utrecht University. "It is unclear who has the final say: municipality, province or, as a last resort, Brussels."
"A lot of work has been done in a short time," said Professor Tonny Nijmeijer of Radboud University Nijmegen during a hearing on the bill at the end of last year. To immediately add: "so much for the kind words". Because although numerous laws are being bundled, according to Nijmeijer this will hardly result in simpler procedures or less bureaucracy.
A concern that Senator Stienen (D66) shares. “The law must contribute to a healthy living environment, cleaner air and clean water. The minister must provide guarantees for this." According to Stienen, Schultz must also ensure that municipalities record the agreements of the climate summit in Paris in the environmental plans.
Data fragmented
The lack of these additional regulations is a sore point for most factions in the Senate. The PvdA wants a guarantee that the four General Administrative Orders, which lay down the additional rules, will also be submitted to the Senate. "If these are insufficient, the legislation can still be blocked," said PvdA senator Lambert Verheijen.
According to GroenLinks senator Marijke Vos, the additional regulations are a tangle of "hundreds of pages that can hardly be understood by almost anyone."
In Leiden, too, we have to wait and see how the law will work out. “We still have a way to go officially. A lot of data is floating around the organization in fragmented form. And the data exchange between municipalities also leaves much to be desired. We have no maps of Wassenaar or Voorschoten here. That will also be the case the other way around."
Officials take to the streets with the question: how do residents want to experience the city in 2040?

Graphic

 
  A new shopping center will soon rise behind this playground in Leidschendam. With the new Environmental Act, municipalities will soon - if all goes well - have less trouble with bureaucracy.

Load Date: March 18, 2016


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")