Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Construction group Heijmans: houses more expensive due to new noise standards
De Telegraaf.nl
August 21, 2020 Friday 2:55 PM GMT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; DFT/NEWS; FRONT PAGE
Length: 411 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


New-build homes will rise in price if the new Environmental Act and nitrogen standards are not amended. Chairman Ton Hillen of construction group Heijmans warned about this on Friday. There is a lot of discussion about the new law, because large areas in the Randstad are classified as having a 'very poor' living environment. As a result, the construction of 380,000 homes in the Schiphol region is at risk.
“In fact, you should tackle your source and use quieter aircraft engines. But this is not feasible in the short term, so we expect that fewer houses will be built than demand. That makes existing construction even more expensive and we will not achieve the 1 million required homes," Hillen said in conversation with De Telegraaf.
The Heijmans CEO is concerned about the consequences of the nitrogen crisis. “Worrying,” he calls it. “To date, construction appears to be the only one affected by the ruling of the Council of State last year, with delayed permits and delayed tenders for large infrastructure projects.”
There are 161 nature reserves in the urbanized Netherlands. “That makes the nitrogen file very vulnerable, especially when I look at Germany and France, where there are only three such areas. There is little we can do, except continue to draw attention to this file. Politics will have to solve this,” says Hillen. The Council for the Environment and Infrastructure recently stated that no new roads need to be built. The construction group sees it differently. “I keep saying that new roads must be added due to population growth. These are needed to open up residential areas.”
Infections
Heijmans published the half-year figures on Friday. The Brabant builder has been able to cope with the corona crisis reasonably well, but did struggle with logistical challenges and infections among its own staff. Absenteeism due to illness temporarily increased to 10%. “It is not only financial, but also has a human side. Five colleagues have been in intensive care due to corona and one has died. Many colleagues here in Brabant have also had to deal with corona in their own families," says Hillen.
Heijmans has not had to claim government measures, such as NOW schemes or deferment of paying taxes. Productivity remained stable and is now even above last year's level. Supplies and transport were more efficient due to fewer traffic jams and no projects came to a standstill.

Graphic

 
Image, Heijmans boss Ton Hillen saw five colleagues end up in intensive care with corona., ANP

Load Date: August 22, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")