Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Urgent letter to municipalities: tasks no longer feasible with increasing youth care shortages
De Volkskrant.nl
February 12, 2021 Friday 01:48 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 429 words
Byline: Charlotte Huisman
Body


  Dutch municipalities can hardly bear the increasing shortages in youth care. The government must quickly provide additional money to help the municipalities. Otherwise, the municipalities can no longer carry out the tasks assigned to them. The Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) wrote this in an urgent letter to the government on Friday.
In 2015, the municipalities were given responsibility for youth care, while the government at the same time cut back on the budget.
Since 2017, municipal youth care shortages have increased enormously: in 2019 it amounted to 1.7 billion euros, it was announced at the end of last year. Due to these shortages, municipalities have to increase the burden on their residents and cut back on, for example, swimming pools and libraries.
"Our members can no longer sustain this situation, but above all, it can no longer be explained to the residents of our country," VNG chairman Jan van Zanen writes in his urgent letter.
Not enough
The government recognizes the problems and has previously promised extra money, around 300 million euros for 2021. But according to the municipalities, that is not enough to close the gaps. That is why the municipalities now want to quickly make agreements with the Cabinet about a structural solution to the shortages.
If the municipalities are not satisfied with the outcome, they will consider submitting their problem to an independent body that must assess the situation, a so-called administrative arbitration. This must determine whether the municipalities can carry out the tasks assigned to them under these conditions.
If the financial position of municipalities does not improve, many municipalities will feel forced to hand in a non-balanced budget," says Van Zanen.
'Then we may no longer be able to play a role in the climate agreement. Then we cannot implement the environmental law. We may then be forced to use the financial ground for refusal for expenditure in the social domain. This means that when the money runs out, we can no longer fund certain care. That there will be waiting lists. This is very undesirable for our residents. But if the Empire does not come to terms, we will be forced to choose between two evils. Then there will be a huge deforestation of the facilities in the coming years.'
The VNG wants to operate together with the government as one government that provides help to all children who need it, according to Van Zanen. 'The municipalities must be enabled to take their responsibility for this.'
 <LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>6646408b-1613137697.json</LN_FILE_DIVIDER_TAG>

Load Date: February 12, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")