Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Bunnik under active supervision of the province
The Telegraph
June 20, 2023 Tuesday
Utrecht


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 12
Length: 387 words
Byline: Eric Roeske
Body


by Eric Roeske
Bunnik - The province of Utrecht has placed the municipality of Bunnik under active supervision in the field of licensing, supervision and enforcement. One of the province's core tasks is to monitor the implementation of statutory tasks by municipalities. At the beginning of April, deputy Arne Schaddelee sent a letter to the council with a laundry list of topics in the field of building and the environment, spatial planning, heritage and monuments where the municipality is currently falling short.
Schaddelee reports that he will send a copy to the municipal council. In reality, a letter about this was only sent on May 31 and ended up in the council members' inboxes on June 6, together with an undated explanation from B and W, which acknowledges that 'the municipality largely does not meet the legal requirements' and is therefore under active supervision.
Improvement actions
The province and municipality are already talking about improvement measures. According to the council, the problems identified are due to the many changes in personnel in recent years, 'which on the one hand resulted in a loss of knowledge and time and on the other hand we did not get around to creating new policy'. Another reason is the postponement of updating policy and work processes due to the Environmental Act that has been postponed several times. The council reports that it will adopt an action plan by June 15 with measures to meet the shortcomings outlined by the province, but this had not yet been received by the municipal council on Monday, June 19.
Councilor Leny Visser says she hopes that a decision on this action plan will be made in the council meeting on Tuesday and that it will subsequently be communicated with them. Resident Saskia te Velde calls it shocking that it took so long for the letter from the province to be shared with the council in June. "I also wonder what it means for the permits that have been granted in recent years."
Gray shed
She is referring, among other things, to the new gray warehouse of 8.5 meters in height that has been built at the back of the houses on Koningin Emmastraat and has caused a lot of bad blood among the residents.
The municipality was unable to respond to questions about the course of events on Tuesday.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 19, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")