Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Citizens don't build crazy things
NRC Handelsblad
September 21, 2012 Friday


Copyright 2012 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Domestic
Length: 1174 words
Byline: Arjen Schreuder
Body


RESUME
The minister wants municipalities to start building the Belgian way: without rules. They are trying it in Boekel in Brabant. As it turns out, it won't be a mess.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Prosperity has become a dirty word. Anyone who builds a house in Boekel in East Brabant does not have to submit their plan to a building design committee. It doesn't exist. You can build whatever you want.
"Really everything?" Minister Schultz van Haegen wants to know. "And what if someone wants to build a large organic office building here in the middle of the village, such as the KPMG building along the highway in Amstelveen?"
Councilor Ted van de Loo: "We do have a zoning plan that states something about functions, maximum heights and building lines, but the external appearance of houses is free." Conclusion: "Boekel is synonymous with deregulation."
In eight prosperous years, several hundred houses were built in the rural community. And don't think it has become a mess, says mayor Pierre Bos. The Boekelse administrators drive Minister Schultz van Haegen (Infrastructure and Environment, VVD) to a neighborhood where construction has taken place with and without building supervision. The differences are negligibly small. Van de Loo: “Citizens don't do crazy things. There has never been an excess." After all, people still want to be able to sell their house. And a little variety is desirable. "We ask project developers to build in a varied way," says the municipal secretary.
Minister Schultz van Haegen is happy with what she sees. She would like nothing more than to cut down the forest of rules in spatial planning. "It is nice to see that we have already been overtaken by practice in The Hague. The skeptics are wrong. I don't see any purple castles. I don't see any clutter in the landscape." Well, in Boekelse Kerkstraat someone painted an entire facade with a protest slogan after an argument with the municipality.
The minister is working on what the department calls 'the largest legislative operation' ever. A new Environmental Act will be introduced. Fifteen existing laws will be incorporated, as will parts of other laws, and two laws will disappear. The Environmental Act must reduce delays and costs during construction. So that, as with the construction of Utrecht Central Station, it does not take 26 weeks just to temporarily relocate shops. “It's crazy,” said the minister.
Hordes of civil servants and advisors are now drafting the new law. A concept should be ready by the end of this year. The law will be submitted to the Council of State for advice next spring. Then there are practical tests, standards are set, and the law is incorporated into measures. And then in about five years the rules should apply to everyone.
The law must stimulate construction, but also guarantee a safe and healthy living environment. According to the minister, the "essence of the law" is that administrators can respond "flexibly" to changes, such as a shrinking population in rural areas or, in cities, a desperate need for housing in vacant office buildings or abandoned factory sites. "Where the initiative lies in society itself."
The examples are there for the taking. In Steenwijk, the construction of more than three hundred hectares of new nature was completed six months earlier because the province, municipality and water board jointly presented the plans and completed the consultation process. "We have finely coordinated all procedures," says councilor Henk Boxum. "Unique." When rebuilding the old city, Hoogeveen no longer bases itself on prosperity, but on the "quality" of a particular location. Councilor Anno Wietze Hiemstra: "We say: build a nice plan, as long as you keep in mind the broad outlines sticks to our ideas about that." This means, for example, that a characteristic chimney of a former dairy factory will remain standing.
The Environmental Act offers local administrators more "room for consideration". Officials must stop "checking off standards", because as a municipal council you must be able to deviate from them. The Environmental Act introduces the concept of "positive proportionality". So that the councilor can say to the citizen: you will deteriorate in terms of noise pollution, but light, views and social safety will improve. Former minister Ed Nijpels (VVD), advisor for the new law: "You must be able to establish a noise standard locally, as long as the quality of life as a whole improves."
Boekel is considered a forerunner. In several ways. Certified architects in Boekel do not have to wait eight to fourteen weeks for a building permit, but receive the permit immediately at the counter. That saves time and money.
Due to the lack of aesthetic supervision and the rapid building permit, the Kandelaars family's house in Boekel was ready about three months earlier than usual. And the legal costs are lower. "It saved me a few thousand euros," says Jeroen Kandelaars, a satisfied citizen who has been living in a partly self-built house for a year. "And fortunately the glass was already in place before the winter."
The joint welfare committees in the Netherlands prefer not to hear about "radical experiments" such as in Boekel. Director Flip ten Cate of the Welstand Federation: "The fact that no excesses occur in Boekel does not mean that they will not occur elsewhere in the country." "Social control in Boekel is apparently very high. It seems as if they all have the same supplier of stones and roof tiles."
Ten Cate knows plenty of examples of "mixed bags" where the view of local residents has been ruined. "Does that benefit the value of a city? The value of a house?" He didn't think so. Some form of supervision remains necessary. Preferably through politics. Ten Cate: "Give a councilor the space to say yes or no to a construction plan. In all openness."
'I don't see any purple castles. I don't see any clutter
Belgian situations
"Some people are afraid that our orderly country will become messy if the government interferes less," said Minister Melanie Schultz van Haegen in her Planning Lecture this year. "No Belgian situations, we hear." She calls that fear unfounded.
In Belgium, the division between city and countryside is less clear than in the Netherlands. Project developers, local authorities and citizens in Belgium have more freedom to build what and where they want.
Schultz said in her speech that it is "no problem that the Netherlands is fully built up", if that means that people feel at home. According to the minister, the Dutch fear of 'clutter' ignores something much more important: freedom. Schultz: "My dream is that everyone has as much space as possible to make their own choices. My dream is to provide space."
The new Environmental Act, which is mentioned in the election manifesto of both VVD and PvdA, should help with this. Freedom has traditionally been the source of prosperity, engineering and commercial spirit. "To maintain this for the Netherlands, our country must not be governed by a centralized rule machine," the minister said.

Graphic

 
A Boekelaar protests on the facade of his building. But the municipality is not familiar with clutter, says Minister Schultz.
Photo Vincent van den Hoogen

Load Date: September 21, 2012


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")