Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=College, talk to the resident; Opinion 010
 Advice for new council: work together with residents, ensure 'citizen power'; Opinion 010

NRC
April 23, 2022 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: ROTTERDAM; Page 1
Length: 878 words
Body


ABSTRACT
The outgoing city council acts as if it is leading on all fronts, such as in the field of climate. In reality, Rotterdam is not doing what is necessary, says Diederik van der Mast. "Engage in conversation with Rotterdammers, ensure 'citizen power'."
COMPLETE TEXT:
The outgoing council has governed the city with blinders on. There was no room for nuance, science and advice for a future-proof and healthy city. Nor was there any attention to the needs of residents. People have even been forcibly evicted. It is up to the new council to govern without those blinders. I am trying to create a bridge from old to new by naming a few accents.
Last year I started studying the so-called Environmental Vision, which sets out the lines for the future development of Rotterdam. I have submitted an opinion and have also spoken to the Building, Housing and Outdoor Space committee.
What is going on? There are no assessment criteria in Rotterdam for the development of the physical outdoor space. All area developments are only tested against the legal framework. There are therefore no frameworks or standards for nature and health (think of heat, cooling), greenery and biodiversity. Nature, water and people are left behind. The outgoing council makes it appear as if it is leading the way on all fronts. In reality, Rotterdam is not doing what is necessary. This conclusion was the basis for the Rotterdam Naturally! foundation, of which I am now the chairman.
How could it have happened like this? During the past council period, efforts were made to achieve urban densification with an ambition of 50,000 new homes by 2040, without taking into account what this means for the residents or the sustainability of Rotterdam. By comparison: Barendrecht has almost 20,000 homes. Reports from IPCC (UN climate panel), KNMI, Deltares and RIVM, among others, about the need to radically change course were not sufficiently received by the council. In the run-up to the introduction of the new Environmental Act (which must regulate all legislation in the field of spatial planning and environmental permits), an environmental assessment was carried out in both an environmental impact report and the Rotterdam Environmental Impact Report. This showed that the current policy leads to further deterioration of nature, the health of people and animals and the quality of life in the city. It will become even warmer due to the strong increase in the 'stone mass'.
Many high-rise buildings are being planned as a solution to the housing shortage. While high-rise buildings mainly have disadvantages: heat lingers and tall buildings are very energy inefficient due to all installations. The biggest disadvantage is the use of materials per square meter of constructed surface, which is easily two to three times as much compared to a four-storey apartment building. This causes the CO2 footprint and costs to increase enormously, especially when materials are scarce and expensive.
Many plans are planned outside the dike. Such as in the Scheepvaartkwartier, Katendrecht and the Lloydkwartier. These areas are unprotected and damage to property due to water is the responsibility of the owners, according to the zoning plans. Against the advice of Delta Commissioner Peter Glas, permits are issued based on a building's lifespan of 75 years. How fair is it to the citizen if the municipality apparently does not take any climate responsibility but sells the land for the highest price? Port basins are being filled in, these sand movements require a lot of (fossil) energy, while more space for water will be needed in the coming decades. If greenhouse gas emissions are not limited, sea levels will be 1.2 meters higher in 2100 than at the beginning of this century.
The new council inherits a whole battery of developments and plans that are at odds with the advice of many scientists and authorities, but do comply with the legal frameworks. What to do with this? The new council must regain the trust of citizens by adhering to the general principles of good governance. The ambition of 50,000 new homes draws a line: there is no need if you study the statistics on housing stock and households.
What options are there for the new council? Homes can still be added, but through reuse and redevelopment. There is a lot of real estate vacant. Preserve buildings, such as the Pompenburg flat. But floating homes also offer a solution, see the water villas in the Nassauhaven on South.
The most important thing: enter into discussions with Rotterdam residents, ensure 'citizen power', and draw up assessment frameworks with residents, together with scientists, for space for nature and water. To make an advance, I would like to point out the new council and Rotterdam residents to the citizens' initiative Lloyd Park: the plan to turn the stone plain on the Lloyd Multiplein into a city park. We support this through our foundation. If it can be done here, it can be done in other places in the city!
Diederik van der Mast is chairman of the Rotterdam Natural! Foundation.
The municipality apparently does not take any climate liability, but does sell the land for the highest price
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Notes

Diederik van der Mast is chairman of the Rotterdam Natural! Foundation.

Graphic

 
Illustration Stella Smienk

Load Date: April 22, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")