Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The ambivalent relationship of the Dutch with the coast
NRC.nl
May 6, 2021 7:21 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1585 words
Byline: Hans Steketee
Highlight: In a cocktail of reportage, interviews and archival research, Martin Hendriksma shows how all kinds of partial interests conflict with each other on the coast, from nature conservation to commerce. It has resulted in an important book.
Body


In 2013, Vrij Nederland journalist Thijs Broer sailed in stages from Zeeland across the North Sea to Groningen. His book, Along the Coast, is a sailor's self-examination and a sociological portrait of the Netherlands. How is it possible, he wanted to know, that we feel connected to the sea, while we physically and mentally withdraw behind the dikes?
In By the sea. A chronicle from the coast, Martin Hendriksma, writer and journalist at Domestic Governance, does almost the opposite. The coast, a source of devilish danger for centuries and something to stay away from for most people, has only recently become a place where everyone finds pleasure or can dream of it.
At the same time, on that vulnerable edge between land and water, perhaps more clearly than anywhere else in the Netherlands, you can see how partial interests are now fighting for priority: nature conservation, recreation, water safety, commerce. How did that happen, he wanted to know. And: can such interests still be reconciled in such a polarized country?
No non-binding questions. Because if anywhere there is a need to overcome social contradictions, he writes, it is where climate change in the guise of rising sea levels becomes an existential issue.
Sodom on the Scheldt
In 1570, the Land van Saeftinghe, a prosperous part of Zeeland Flanders, drowned. The sea was indomitable, the dikes weak. But it was also their own fault: the Saeftinghers should have returned that captured mermaid to her 'legal merman', writes Hendriksma, who links 'the Saeftinghe legend' to loose morals. The first chapter is called 'Sodom on the Scheldt'; the water as punishment from God – a thought that was still alive during the flood disaster of 1953.
The sea as a vengeful enemy, as a gateway to the colonies, the coast as a holiday resort for the elite and, later, more ordinary people. These are some of the themes under which Hendriksma groups his visits to the coast and which form a cocktail of reportage, interviews and archival research, in which he connects 'then and now' skillfully and sometimes compellingly.
He previously applied this method in De Rijn, Biography of a River (2017). For that book he traveled from source to estuary, which gave the book a natural order. In Aan Zee there is no such geographical logic and its themes force you to travel criss-cross along the coast. It goes from a pastor who settled in Vlieland in 1714 with two Rembrandts, via the Middelburg slave shipping company to the bathing culture in The Hague and to Huisduinen for a French invasion that did not come, at least not from the sea.
Demolished for Hitler
For a moment you get the feeling that he has thrown 25 darts at random at the map. In addition, the first chapters are not all equally interesting. Much has been written about Domburg, which became a fashionable seaside resort in the nineteenth century thanks to physiotherapist Johann Georg Mezger, for whose 'golden thumbs' half the Habsburg court traveled to Zeeland. And Hendriksma also adds little to the story of the Zee-Straet, a cobbled road through the dunes from The Hague to Scheveningen, designed by Constantijn Huygens in the seventeenth century (and that paying tolls would be 'charging avant la lettre' is beyond doubt). corny just not true).
Hendriksma is also sloppy sometimes. Cornelis Lely, for example, was not the one who opened up the Dutch railways to private entrepreneurs in 1878 (he was 24 at the time and far from a minister). And Walcheren was not flooded by the Germans, but by British bombardments of the dikes. But that does not detract from the fact that he has written a fascinating, relevant book.
Halfway through, Hendriksma focuses his lens. Firstly, on the coastal inhabitants who lost out against large human forces. Such as the inhabitants of the Breesaap, the dune area that had to make way for the North Sea Canal (Conny Braam already wrote a novel about it in 2010, The Fury of Abraham).
Or the village of Petten, which was almost completely demolished in 1943 for the construction of casemates in Hitler's Atlantic Wall. But 'ten years after their forced retreat, the first Germans were already at the door in Petten. Now as tourists. “Nobody thought it was strange,” notes Hendriksma from village chronicler Piet Glas. 'Pettemers' rented out their entire house to a German family in the summer, and slept in the shed themselves - 'as if the conditions of the war were returning', he writes laconically.
NSB village Zandvoort
The second development is the unstoppable democratization of the coast. You saw it in Hoek van Holland, with its camping site that grew into a 'wooden city' of summer homes for Rotterdam workers after the First World War. Hendriksma digs up a wonderful letter from 1924 in which the editors of Het Volk, a daily newspaper for the workers' party, asked Dutch municipalities if you could pitch a tent there. Rockanje and West-Terschelling said, in summary: come here. But the reformed gardening community of 's-Gravenzande announced in advance 'that in order to prevent the disgusting and immoral scenes to which the so-called camp life in Hoek van Holland gives rise, it will not hesitate to introduce the most strict regulations '.
This democratization started in Zandvoort, which saw its mundane ambitions fail at the beginning of the last century and increasingly became 'everyone's sand'. That is Zandvoort 'already at the Sea' ('we bring coffee and sandwiches').
Through that chapter Hendriksma also weaves the bitter, only half-explained history of the 'NSB village'. In 1935, a quarter of the population voted for Mussert, compared to eight percent nationally - possibly because the 'old village' blamed the Jewish businessmen, who had developed Bad-Zandvoort, for its decline and the absence of German tourists in particular. Even at recent commemorations, the division in the village remained palpable.
GHB-O tent
The beach of Callantsoog was the first place where naturism was officially allowed in the Netherlands, from 1973. The distinction between social classes disappeared, Hendriksma shows based on a conversation with Wilfred de Wild and Anke-Nel Zeeman, who were there ( (also naked herself) for years running the beach club 'Yes of course', and staying overnight there. “Everything came to us, from worker to lawyer.” No hedonism, but cozy without clothes. When Wilfred was still asleep, the guests would knock him awake. Then he would run naked for a dip in the sea and 'when I came back the coffee had run out'.
But commerce got the upper hand: company parties and motocross were introduced. The pavilion was first moved and is now gone. There is still a nudist beach and another pavilion, where you can get 'prawns' and wear a towel when you get something to drink.
Something similar happened in Bloemendaal aan Zee, which organized the first casual jazz and dance festival Beach Bop in 1993. 'Going out on the beach' was new. “The municipality of Bloemendaal didn't even know there was a beach,” says Wim Brugman, one of the organizers. Hendriksma brings him and his colleagues together for a look back. But realism wins out over their nostalgia. The big money, fights, drugs. “The first aid tent was soon called the GHB-O tent – ​​it was no fun for me.”
You see this trend towards commercialization along the entire coast. How did that one street on Vlieland become a 'buying gutter' with nautical knick-knacks from China? How many more hectares of time-share bungalows can the Zeeland delta tolerate? 'Authentic' versus authentic.
Holiday homes
In most places the dynamics are more complex. In the family seaside resort of Katwijk you stepped out of your car on the boulevard straight onto the beach. It was also a weak link in the coastal defense. Now there is a gigantic dike, also a parking garage, over a kilometer long that separates the village from the sea. Katwijk 'formerly at the Sea', he writes.
Bizarrely, the opposite also happens in many places: the sea is allowed to advance there. Via channels in the foredune, for salt-loving fauna. And on a large scale: see the Waterdunen project, holiday homes plus saltwater nature between Breskens and Cadzand. They partly arise from so-called 'Coastal Pacts' between all interest groups. Bizarre: poldering leads to depoldering. Hendriksma derives hope from this. 'Stopping something simply connects, whether it concerns the fight against the water or the fight against coastal development. Now it is about creating something new from that joint resistance, something that helps our coast move forward in a sustainable way.'
Does he really believe it? See also the – unfortunately not included – Hedwige polder; almost a mirror image of the adjacent Saeftinghe. A sturdy, nineteenth-century polder where the monumental trees have now been cut down and the dike is deliberately cut to create a silt mecca for seagulls.
The idea is: to compensate for the nature that was lost when the Scheldt was dredged for the port of Antwerp. Win-win: 'you a little more, me a little more'. Hendriksma mentions the companies on the Eemsmond that are allowed to compensate for extra emissions with a bird island. But that 'exchange philosophy' - soon to be laid down in the new Environmental Act - is an accounting trick, 'a quasi-solution to a new problem', he writes. “If I were a tern or a seagull, I would lay my egg somewhere else.” Not unfunny. Fortunately, Hendriksma shows that the coast is no longer a subject to be light-hearted about.
Martin Hendriksma: By the sea.
A chronicle of the coast.
De Geus, 360 pages. € 23.50
●●●●○

Load Date: May 6, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")