Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=De Jonge can do much less than he wants
NRC.nl
March 12, 2022 12:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 692 words
Byline: Mirjam Remie
Highlight: The government wants more control over the housing market. But it has few tools for this.
Body


For the first time in ten years there is a minister of spatial planning again - and he wants to live up to his title. “Public housing is back,” says Minister Hugo de Jonge (CDA) in his national construction and housing vision presented on Friday. The key word in this is direction: as far as housing construction is concerned, this must be placed more with the government instead of with the market and local authorities, in order to pull the stalled housing market out of the doldrums.
De Jonge is in a hurry: the goal is to have 900,000 additional homes built by 2030 to make up for the increasing housing shortage. This amounts to approximately 100,000 homes per year. That number must be achieved from 2024 onwards. Nearly 69,000 homes were built last year.
By the beginning of next year, it should be clear for each region how many homes will be added over the next ten years, which type, in which segment and in which locations.
More affordable housing
Two-thirds of the new homes to be built must be in the affordable segment. This concerns 350,000 owner-occupied homes (up to 355,000 euros this year) and mid-range rentals (currently up to 1,000 euros per month). And 250,000 social rental homes. These must be spread across the country. Every municipality must have at least 30 percent social rent.
Currently, only 43 percent of new construction is 'affordable', while there is a great need for this. “If we leave housing to the free play of forces, the law of the strongest applies and people get into trouble,” says De Jonge.
How do you break that game? De Jonge wants to make binding performance agreements with provinces, municipalities and corporations. But the question is how enforceable they are. With the corporations, he has the landlord levy as an asset: this maligned measure will only be withdrawn if corporations build sufficient social rental housing, the cabinet decided.
Things are more complicated with local governments: there are few means of pressure. De Jonge hopes that the Environmental Act, which will come into effect next year, will provide sufficient legal grounds to continue housing construction plans if local authorities fail. In addition, a proposal is in the making for a 'law to strengthen public housing management'. But such a legislative process takes a long time and he does not have time to wait for it.
The game itself also makes taking control complicated. The fact that housing construction is currently not getting off the ground is due to a range of reasons. Procedures take a long time: on average it takes ten years to build a house, the construction of which takes 'only' two to three years. Capacity shortage and lack of knowledge among municipalities mean that permits are not granted on time. Construction is struggling with a shortage of personnel and a shortage of materials, which are also becoming increasingly expensive. Land prices are high and then there is the nitrogen problem, which causes projects to come to a standstill.
It is also not always easy to find space for new homes, because infrastructure, nature, energy and climate adaptation also require space. For example, large-scale housing construction, one of the solutions that De Jonge proposes, is only possible if the water and soil system of an area is suitable for it.
The housing agenda therefore includes a 'profit warning': "There is no panacea and no quick solution for all problems."
Glass half full
Yet the glass is “half full,” says Cees-Jan Pen, lecturer in the entrepreneurial region at Fontys Hogescholen about the plans. “It is a step in the right direction. I see a quite complete, realistic agenda and a good analysis.” De Jonge shows “a lot of patience with his Rotterdam DNA of 'actions rather than words',” says Pen. “He understands that the issue is complex and that he needs others.” But the plans say little about coordination with other ministries, says Pen. “And he remains general about what exactly will change.”
In addition to more control, De Jonge wants to speed up construction procedures – including by increasing the civil service in local authorities – and stimulate rapid housing construction. He has 7.5 billion euros available for opening up large-scale housing locations; to help municipalities build homes, 1.75 billion euros.

Load Date: March 12, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")