Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=De Jonge postpones the introduction of the Environmental Act, this time due to IT problems
De Volkskrant.nl
February 1, 2022 Tuesday 07:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 329 words
Byline: Maarten Albers
Body


  The introduction of the Environmental Act has been postponed again. The law, which was announced in 2014 as 'the largest legislative operation since the renewal of the Constitution in 1848', is proving to be a headache for the central government.
Minister Hugo de Jonge of Housing and Spatial Planning reported the postponement to the House of Representatives on Tuesday. The Environmental Act is the key to the spatial planning and living environment policy of the future. He should speed up procedures and make it easier to apply for permits. The major challenges in the field of housing construction, energy transition, creation of new nature, protection of biodiversity and sustainability of agriculture depend on it.
With the Environmental Act, 26 laws are bundled into one law, sixty General Administrative Orders become four, and 75 ministerial regulations become one. This would make the many laws and regulations simpler and better aligned. However, the switch to new ICT systems leads to problems when introducing the law.
The Senate already adopted the Environmental Act in 2016, but its implementation has now been postponed for the fifth time. In the coming weeks, Minister De Jonge will discuss with other administrators whether introduction on October 1 is realistic, or whether it should be planned for January 1 next year.
"Various consultations with fellow authorities and experts on the introduction of the Environmental Act have revealed that more time is needed to properly practice with the digital systems," De Jonge wrote to the House of Representatives on Tuesday. 'I want to take that time to ensure that the Environmental Act comes into effect responsibly and carefully.'
De Jonge stated that a lot is already going well with the implementation of the new law, such as the granting of permits. Almost all local authorities are now connected to the new system, which is being practiced extensively. But there are still 'several uncertainties'.

Load Date: February 1, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")