Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The new building permit; THE REALTOR HANS BROEREN
The Telegraph
October 18, 2014 Saturday


Copyright 2014 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: Travel Newspaper-; Page 19
Length: 343 words
Byline: Slaats, Petra
Body


The run-up to the Environmental Act has already started with the Building Decree 2012 and this new law will replace 26 laws and other regulations. The entire operation will last until 2018, but we are already noticing useful benefits. A building permit is now called an environmental permit.
        Dormer windows at the rear are already permit-free, as are carports. An extension may now be 4 meters instead of 2.5 meters. Low outbuildings can also be built near your home without a permit. Ask whether you are building within the rules.
        You may also build structures such as an informal care home on your own land behind your home, in deviation from the zoning plan. Of course, there are conditions attached, such as maximum surface area of ​​this house of 100 m2, maximum height, sloping or flat roof. Discuss this in advance with your municipality.
        If you want to carry out construction work for which you do need an environmental permit, leave the work for which you do not require a permit out of the application. This saves you fees, which depend on the estimated construction costs, and by applying for both parts in a permit, you make both components subject to a permit requirement. And in that case, someone who objects to the work requiring a permit also objects to the work without a permit.
        From November 1, a period of 8 weeks instead of 6 months will apply for the municipality to make a decision on environmental permits for works that deviate from a zoning plan. This applies in particular to temporary structures, such as an emergency school or shop. But also for converting offices into homes or student flats, etc.
        The environmental law with the environmental permit is a huge operation that will demand a lot from home owners and companies, but also from civil servants and administrative judges. Rules are less important here than attitude; a sympathetic attitude is most important, both for the applicant and the municipality.
        www.broeren.com

Load Date: October 17, 2014


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")