Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=According to the Senate, the Environmental Act will lead to chaos
NRC.nl
February 9, 2021 11:16 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 474 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan
Highlight: The introduction of the Environmental Act encounters practical objections in municipalities. Almost half of the aldermen want postponement or cancellation.
Body


It should be the largest legislative change since the constitutional revision by Thorbecke in 1848. But the Environmental Act, which must combine dozens of laws and hundreds of ministerial regulations on the design of outdoor spaces, from noise standards to catering regulations and environmental legislation, is encountering resistance in municipalities. Councilors responsible for the introduction of this law, which should come into effect in January 2022, fear IT dramas and a financial debacle. Research by the trade magazine Domestic Governance and the national Aldermen's Association shows that almost half of the 177 aldermen interviewed are opposed to the introduction. Of these, 37 percent want a postponement and 11 percent even annulment of the law.
Since the beginning of this year, municipalities have been testing the software and IT systems that must make the new law work in practice. But many municipalities do not get around to doing this, the research shows. The test phase is failing in many places in the country due to unworkable software. Smaller municipalities in particular cannot cope with the new law in practice because measures surrounding the corona crisis already require their attention. As a result, there is hardly any official capacity for other priorities.
Senate blocks law
Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs, D66) had wanted to get the law through the House of Representatives and Senate before the elections. The House of Representatives agreed to the law at the end of last year and called on the minister in a motion to ensure that the law is introduced on time, for fear of chaos in the implementation at municipalities and provinces.
Smaller municipalities cannot cope with the new law in practice because measures surrounding the corona crisis require all their attention
The VNG, the trade organization of Dutch municipalities, wrote to the House of Representatives at the end of last year that everything would work out. Laws and regulations seemed to be in order in a timely manner, as did the software systems to be able to work with them in practice. According to the VNG, the minister could be confident that the entire operation would be in order in a responsible manner by January 2022.
Also read:
But according to the councilors interviewed, the practice is not so rosy at all. More than a third say that their municipality will not be ready at all for next January. Three-quarters of respondents do not trust the quality of the government's software systems, 61 percent foresee serious financial problems and 39 percent do not have the official capacity due to corona.
Ollongren says in response to the research that further delays will only make the operation even more expensive. She says she understands "municipalities where implementation is a major challenge", but is sticking to the implementation date. The question now is whether she can convince the Senate. They must first agree to this.
Also read:
Also read:

Load Date: February 9, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")