Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The government is not a company
NRC.nl
May 19, 2021 7:03 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 876 words
Byline: Arjo Klamer
Highlight: A culture of distrust prevails at all levels within the government, writes Arjo Klamer. Rutte's "radical ideas" distract from the real problem.
Body


The "radical" ideas that VVD leader Mark Rutte came up with in Nieuwsuur last week were downright disappointing. He is proud of what he has done and is willing to talk to Pieter Omtzigt. But he does not want other conversations, such as the coalition conversation. Nice and radical.
 Arjo Klamer is emeritus professor of cultural economics and was alderman for Social Affairs and Participation in Hilversum on behalf of the SP from 2014 to 2017.
Rutte tries to provide a solution by taking up Omtzigt's complaint against the administrative culture. A different administrative culture may be desirable, but the discussion about it distracts from the real problem. Because it can be found in the implementation of government policy.
What can and must be changed is the culture in which government organizations operate. As a councilor I encountered that culture and as a cultural economist I see that the failure of the Participation Act, the nitrogen problem, the Benefits Affair and the problems with the Environmental Act are largely due to that culture.
Culture is about values ​​and the way in which groups of people give meaning to what they do. By talking together in a certain way and using specific concepts, groups of people give meaning and direction to their actions.
When I became an alderman for the SP in Hilversum in 2014, I left the culture of the academy and entered the culture of the government – ​​the municipal one in my case. I noticed that civil servants talked about 'customers', that there are 'customer managers', that 'we' 'work demand-driven', and that if we wanted to arrange a service, such as guiding young people in a neighborhood, we went for it' outsourcing' and therefore 'tendering'. Society is 'the front field', people take care of each other, this is called 'informal care', and people take care of their own health, this is called 'prevention'. When it comes to landscaping, it is again about 'tendering' and negotiating quality and price. When I came across the absurdity of a scheme, I was reminded of the principle of 'legality'. If I organized a Hilversum debit card with people from 'outside', i.e. with people who walk around outside in the wild, there was no control and it was not possible.
Selfish and greedy
The culture I found is a culture of distrust. The starting point was that the other party thinks of its own interests above all, abuses the rules, that officials are quick to make mistakes, and that 'the customers' commit fraud. In this way, the official environment gave meaning to its environment and this justified the emphasis on 'control and management', on rules, and on organizing competition through tenders. It is a culture that assumes people are selfish and greedy. As an economist, I know that culture well, because it also permeates economic thinking.
It is therefore not without reason that this culture in which policy is implemented was initially referred to as the 'economization of government organizations'. In the academy this approach became known as public management. The government was seen as a business. Management jargon was introduced. Hence the customer managers, the customers, the demand-driven approach. It leads to a culture in which everything revolves around transactions, results, and efficiency. Critics call this culture 'neoliberal'.
That culture has had its day. As colleague Lans Bovenberg points out, it is time for a switch from transactional thinking to relational thinking. Kim Putters, the director of the Social and Cultural Planning Office, speaks of "a new social contract". But unlike Omtzigt, he is not about the rule of law but about the socialization of implementation.
What matters is that, to begin with, local authorities, which are increasingly responsible for implementing policy, manage their relationships with citizens and social organizations. As a councilor, I wanted to speak directly to youth workers about problems in a neighborhood, I would like to see civil servants talking to employers about people who have difficulty finding work, and parties working together in the neighborhood. I have campaigned for the formation of cooperatives in which the municipality is also a party, such as a 'productive learning' cooperative for young people who are derailing in regular education.
Human size
As it turned out, conferences and study days are about little else. Everyone inside and outside the government seems to want to manage based on qualities and values. The human dimension comes first. People are enthusiastic about the idea that a municipality should only do business with social enterprises, and the cooperative form is becoming increasingly popular. Janny Bakker, director of Movisie, advocates a responsive government, with more room for professionals to assess personal circumstances. Really, it's teeming with good ideas for a different culture.
But all these groundbreaking ideas fail - not because of the administrative culture, but because of the narrow economic culture in which municipalities and implementing organizations operate, i.e. because of the neoliberal culture. By promising radical ideas about administrative culture, Rutte cum suis distracts from where things should go: a different government culture.

Load Date: May 21, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")