Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Environmental Act will affect your life. What kind of law is this?
De Volkskrant.nl
June 28, 2022 Tuesday 05:58 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 849 words
Byline: Natalie Righton
Body


  The Environmental Act determines what the Netherlands will look like in the coming years, yet hardly anyone has heard of it. What does the law mean and what will you notice?1. What is the Environmental Act? The Environmental Act will determine how the scarce space in the Netherlands will be distributed among citizens.
A permit must now be requested from the government for almost every piece of land on which construction takes place. There are now dozens of different counters and rules for this. The Environment Act creates a single digital counter. Whether someone wants to install a dormer window, renovate a shed or house, cut down a tree or plant an entire forest: from now on, all permit applications will go through that one digital counter of the Environmental Act. The aim of this operation is to simplify the licensing procedures. This would allow the government to save money and citizens and businesses to build faster.2. What will change if, for example, I want to apply for a dormer window? Anyone who wants to install a simple dormer window on their house now runs the risk of getting caught up in the many permits and regulations that come with it. With a bit of bad luck, the dormer window will have to go through about five permission processes. First, a permit is required for the construction activity itself: installing the dormer window. If something also needs to be demolished, such as part of the old roof, there is a good chance that a second permit will be required for 'demolition and/or asbestos removal'. If the dormer window is placed on a house that has been declared a monument, a permit is also required for 'maintaining, restoring, changing or demolishing a monument'. If the dormer window is placed at the front of the house, there is chance that the renovation plan deviates from the zoning plan. Then permission must also be requested to 'act in violation of the spatial planning rules'. And finally, most municipalities will also want the dormer window, for example, not to be bright purple, but that the structure meets the applicable aesthetic requirements of the neighborhood. The blessing of the aesthetics committee must be arranged before the dormer window can be legally built. The Environmental Act was once devised to abolish this 'torture walk' through all those different counters. If the law is introduced, building permits can now be applied for at a single digital counter, where one can see at a glance which rules must be met. This should save a lot of time and frustration, if only because the names, telephone numbers and email addresses of five different departments no longer have to be traced. 3. Are there any other advantages? The intention is to increase the waiting time for a permit from 26 to 8 weeks, allowing citizens and companies to start building more quickly. In these times of a major housing shortage, this is more necessary than ever, according to Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge. Municipalities have the advantage that they can offer more customization. At the moment, one citizen wants to build, another wants to plant trees, and a third wants to build a solar park. “Everyone fights for their own interests, but only one can get their way now,” Geert Teisman, professor of public administration at Erasmus University, said earlier in the Volkskrant. According to the professor, the Environmental Act offers the opportunity to do justice to several wishes at the same time. “The Environmental Act encourages us to combine ambitions smartly, so that we can do more with less space,” says Teisman. 'For example, can you live in windmills? I'm just saying something', said the professor.4. Sounds wonderful. Who can be against this? It will not be the first time that there is a gap between theory and practice. In theory, the new Environmental Act will soon ensure excellently regulated permit procedures. But the practice may be more unruly, critics fear. Senators in the Senate mainly fear major IT problems surrounding the digital permit counter. Officials working with test versions are already reporting various implementation problems. The Association of Dutch Municipalities, among others, fears a 'temporary setback in services' when the counter opens in January. That is precisely the reason to continue testing and adjusting the system, argues responsible minister Hugo de Jonge. “That is no different from how Apple works: they can already launch a 1.0 version on the market, knowing that they can still fix bugs afterwards,” says Professor Teisman. Critics are not convinced. They currently call the introduction of the law 'very risky' (GroenLinks) and foresee 'major problems' (PvdA). Left-wing opposition parties also fear that nature will often lose out to construction plans. There is also fierce resistance on the right side of the Senate. Henk Otten consistently compares the Environmental Act to the Titanic. “Captain De Jonge has been warned of looming icebergs, but instead of changing course, he sails full speed ahead.”

Load Date: June 28, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")