Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The closing notes of Bohemian Rhapsody still resonate when all kinds of rules change on January 1: an overview
NRC.nl
December 28, 2023 3:28 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 926 words
Byline: Rein Wieringa
Highlight: At New Year's Eve, the government uncorks a lot of new rules. NRC lists the most important ones.
Body


A series of new rules will apply from Monday. Taxes and benefits shift, regulations expire, laws come into effect. An overview of the most important changes.
Education
Schools have received "urgent advice" from the Ministry of Education to ban telephones from January 1. How exactly do they fill that in? At one school there is a total ban, at the other there are 'mobile-free zones'.
From next year, students can receive a supplementary grant if their parents together earn a maximum of around 70,000 euros per year, more than the current limit of more than 50,000 euros. The amounts of student financing are also increasing.
Another thing that is rising: the interest on student debt. It was 0.46 and will now be 2.56 percent. This means that the 'unlucky generation' that did not receive a basic grant does not have to pay higher interest.
Also read Mobile-free zones in schools: 'They suddenly start talking to each other'
Smoking and drinking
E-cigarettes should no longer taste like blueberry, strawberry ice cream or mojito. Only the 'tobacco' flavor will be allowed from next year. Supermarkets and catering establishments are allowed to sell tobacco for another six months - as of July 1, they must remove cigarettes and accessories from the shelves. Albert Heijn is already doing this in January.
The tax on soft drinks, low-alcohol beer and fruit juice will increase from 9 to 26 cents per liter, while the tax on mineral water will disappear. The excise duty on alcoholic beverages will increase by 8.4 percent. As a result, a case of beer will cost an average of 50 cents more, the government has calculated. Smoking is also becoming considerably more expensive: a pack of cigarettes goes from an average of 9 to 11.10 euros, rolling tobacco from 17 to 24.62 euros.
Also read 'Vapers? These are first and second graders,” says Lisa (15) wearing a black hoodie
Pensions, wages and benefits
When the final chord of 'Bohemian Rhapsody' sounds on the radio, the state pension age rises by two months to 67 years. The retirement age will increase further in 2028. Employees between the ages of 18 and 21 already start accruing a pension, whereas previously this accrual started in most cases at the age of 21.
From now on, the minimum wage is no longer calculated per month, week or day, but always per hour. Because the minimum wage was based on a 36-hour working week, hundreds of thousands of people who work 40 hours will benefit.
The minimum hourly wage also increases from 12.79 euros to 13.27 euros per hour. All kinds of benefits are increasing, such as the WW, the WIA and the Wajong.
All allowances will increase, except for the healthcare allowance, which will decrease because this year's temporary increase will expire. The energy surcharge and the price ceiling will also disappear.
Also read: Detested and hated, now suddenly crucial to combat poverty: Rutte IV still keeps the unpopular benefits in place
environmental code
The Environmental Act will come into effect on Monday, after years of delay. This mega law must bundle all kinds of different rules about the living environment. Citizens who want to request information or apply for a permit for a dormer window, for example, can do so at a new digital counter.
At least that is the intention, because a "significant part" of municipalities are not yet ready to switch to the new ICT system, spokespeople for the Interior and the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) told the ANP news agency earlier this month. The VNG expects that those lagging behind will also switch quickly. Other people involved
Read also Yet another IT drama seems inevitable with the introduction of the Environmental Act
Last names
Anyone who has a child from January 1 can also give the surnames of both parents. Determine the order of the double surname at the registry office. One surname is still allowed.
Also read: Soon you can choose: Smit, Kuiper, Smit Kuiper or Kuiper Smit
Plastic
The disposable cup in the office will be a thing of the past in four days. Entrepreneurs are also no longer allowed to give cups or containers with plastic in them to customers who eat their food on the spot. If they do, there is little chance that they will encounter any problems as a result. The Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate will not enforce the rules in some cases.
Also read: The disposable coffee cup in the office will be banned from January. Or not?
Donate
The jubilee barrel will soon be completely abolished. In 2022, people were still allowed to give away more than €100,000 tax-free for someone else's house, this year that amounted to around 29,000 euros and as of 2024 the 'donation exemption' will have disappeared. Parents who want to give their children money can still fall back on
Also read The jubilee barrel is disappearing, but there are still plenty of ways to donate tax-free
Doxing
Doxing, also known as "sharing someone else's data with the intention of intimidating that person", will be punishable from January 1. Anyone who is guilty of this risks a prison sentence of two years or a fine of 25,750 euros. The fine amounts for other criminal offenses are also increasing.
Also read: No politician is against a law that combats 'doxing', but do enforcers know what to do with that kind of intimidation?
Streaming
Viewers can soon expect more Dutch content from streaming services such as Netflix, Disney+ or HBO Max. From January 1, these services must invest at least 5 percent of their Dutch turnover in projects that have a link with the Netherlands, for example because the main characters speak Dutch or Frisian or because the scenario is based on Dutch literature. Tens of millions of euros.
Also read: After years of debate, Parliament passes a law requiring streaming services to invest in Dutch productions

Load Date: March 18, 2024


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")