Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The salami tactic in the Netherlands: always grab a piece of nature
NRC.nl
February 14, 2022 7:21 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1706 words
Byline: Arjen Schreuder
Highlight: The battle for forest next to the exclusive golf course The Duke and the battle for a site in De Bilt are a harbinger of the way in which the battle for nature will take place in the coming years, it is expected. “Many minimal interventions add up to a major one.”
Body


Walking with the dog along all these trees will soon no longer be an option, say Toine Smits and Berty Weernink. “This piece of forest is being cut down. And digging is underway.” The golf course will be expanded and a large pond will be added. For years, the neighbors, together with the Brabant Environmental Federation, have been angry about the expansion drive of The Duke, an exclusive golf club of Karel van Eerd, big man at the Jumbo supermarket company, beautifully situated in the woods between Nistelrode and Heesch in Brabant.
In the late 1980s, the first plots of forest were cleared to build golf courses. According to the Council of State, the course of events was unlawful at the time. A “salami tactic” has also been applied since then, according to local residents: taking a piece of nature again and again. Even now, the damage to the protected nature remains limited to approximately one hectare. “That is called a minimal intervention. But many minimal interventions add up to a major one,” says Toine Smits, emeritus professor of sustainable water management. Recreationalists will soon have to take a detour into a smaller forest. Badgers are also being chased away. And what is the expansion good for? “We were told that they wanted to make a qualitative improvement.”
The battle for the forest next to The Duke is a harbinger of the way in which nature will be fought for in the coming years, expect Natuurmonumenten, the provincial landscapes, Bird Protection Netherlands and Nature & Environment. Because despite all the nice words about nature protection in the coalition agreement of the new cabinet, the cabinet is making a "historic mistake" as a result of which much nature will lose out against the ambitions to build recreational parks, homes, wind turbines, solar panels and roads in that nature. they think.
No, not in the European protected Natura 2000 areas, but in areas that are included in the Netherlands Nature Network (NNN). This is considered the 'ecological backbone' of the Netherlands, previously known as the Ecological Main Structure (EHS). The new Environmental Act, which has been awaiting introduction for years, formally abolishes the 'no, unless' principle that, according to nature conservationists, has prevented a lot of misery; the principle that no interventions may be carried out in this nature unless it serves a “major social interest” and “no alternatives” are possible.
Deterrent effect
This is a major concern for director Teo Wams of Natuurmonumenten, among others. Wams: “It was a quite effective rule, which not only stopped but also prevented many plans for interventions in nature. It had a deterrent effect: many plans were not submitted because that rule simply existed.”
In addition, protecting the nature network is not going so smoothly anyway. Wams: “The agreement is that the nature network must be completed by 2027. We are far from there yet. Something needs to be done. We need more rather than less protection.”
Utrecht has also been arguing about a piece of nature for years. A project developer wants to transform the former site of the Hessing car company in De Bilt into a residential area with 130 houses, beautifully situated against and partly just within the boundaries of the Sandwijck estate - part of the Netherlands Nature Network. Hendrike Geessink walks in the English-style estate along lovely paths with rustic views and discusses provincial nature policy in the meantime. Geessink is head of policy and planning at Utrechts Landschap, which manages the estate and has been watching over this beautiful greenery for years.
In anticipation of scrapping the 'no unless' principle, the province has come up with something new; Intervention in nature is only allowed if that intervention offers 'added value' to nature as a whole. Geesink: “When does an area improve? How do you test that? That is very vague.”
Sandwijck is located in an ecological zone along the east of the city of Utrecht. “Important for such an urban area. Why build in such a vulnerable area? We need this nature more than ever. It seems that the concept of added value was invented by the province to make much more possible in nature. While it is really better to be clear and say: this far and no further.”
The province tests possible interventions against the "robustness" and "coherence" of the nature reserve and these are affected, says Geessink. “This plan provides additional nature elsewhere, as compensation. In our opinion, that really does not outweigh the disruption here. It is also often like comparing apples and oranges. The new district extends into the nature reserve. The noise from such a neighborhood, such as a slamming door, a party, honking, has an effect on the habitat of animals, such as birds. They will avoid these areas. Badgers will also have to choose other routes.”
Latest news: the plans have been canceled for the time being, despite previous approval from the province of Utrecht, because a councilor for the CDA in De Bilt, Margriet van de Vooren, unexpectedly and as the only one in her group voted against the zoning plan. The CDA has removed her from the list of candidates for the upcoming council elections. She was second. Anyway; perhaps the project developer will appeal or pull out an old plan for the construction of a hundred villas and apartments in a gated community - that plan does not affect greenery and was once approved.
Some holes are too short
It remains to be seen whether other provinces, like Utrecht, will introduce the concept of added value to determine whether nature may be damaged. Each province can decide this itself. “The government should take control. Especially now that the rural area will be reformed in the coming years," says director Wams of Natuurmonumenten.
The province of North Brabant has officially provisionally approved the expansion of the stately golf club in Nistelrode, to the horror of the activists. In a few months, the municipal council will consider the plan, drawn up on behalf of Business Club The Duke, which describes it as "one of the most beautiful golf courses in the Netherlands" - mainly because of its nature. The course's growth is necessary to "attract business associates to join and meet at the golf club," according to the plan. Commercial manager André van Heumen of The Duke: “We are sometimes told that some holes are very short. We want to extend this, also to compete with other courses, and for this we need two and a half hectares, of which one hectare is within the nature reserve. We have strictly adhered to the province's conditions.”
Also read this doomsday article on nature conservation from 2005
Local residents grumble and state that more hectares are being sacrificed. “More and more is allowed in the Netherlands,” says Smits, walking along a winding path that will soon no longer lead across the golf course. Smits: “I understand that you cannot lock down the Netherlands in terms of planning. But then you have to demonstrate usefulness and necessity. That didn't happen here. Will this company go bankrupt if there is no expansion? Never saw a report.”
Berty Weernink: “We do not want an expansion. Agreements were once made that enough was enough. But it is never enough.” In addition, The Duke is already behaving "not sensibly" in the current area, says Smits. “It is not a poor football club, but a wealthy club. The water consumption on these sandy soils is enormous. You can reduce this by 70 to 80 percent with existing techniques. That doesn't happen. The municipality of Bernheze leases this land to the Van Eerd family, without additional requirements for water management and biodiversity. Why? That is stupid."
Regional and local government is too weak and unstable to protect nature without national rules, local residents believe. Smits: “You can safely assume that the disappearance of national rules will lead to the crumbling of the natural values ​​that still exist.”
Oh yes, during a previous expansion of The Duke, in 2012, it was agreed that the lost nature would be compensated elsewhere. Smits: “Nothing came of this due to incorrect management.”
Manager Van Heumen of The Duke notes that many objections have indeed been submitted to the plans. “We tried for a year to reach an agreement. That did not work." He believes that the fact that walkers are losing their familiar path should not be exaggerated: “They will soon turn left instead of right.” According to him, the golf club treats nature with care. “There's nothing crazy going on here. Golf is nature.” Moreover, the rules for compensating for nature are "not bad", according to Van Heumen. “So that on balance there is even nature added.”
Nature remains protected
 The government and provinces disagree with the criticism from nature organizations that nature protection is not guaranteed. Provinces may now decide for themselves how they manage nature, provided they "guarantee the protection, maintenance and development of the essential characteristics and values" of a nature reserve. This is an "obligation to achieve results", according to a spokesperson for Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning, CDA), and as a result the protection is "strengthened" and not damaged.
 The comparison may be flawed, but it is as if provinces are allowed to decide for themselves how fast they can drive on the roads, provided they ensure that the number of accidents does not increase, and preferably decreases. Nature organizations now fear long discussions in each province about what exactly the conditions are under which any interventions in nature are permitted. That is “asking for problems,” according to Natuurmonumenten.
 The provinces do have a bright future. National politics has established that the protection of nature must be "at least equivalent to the existing protection" and that the provinces can decide for themselves how to achieve this. That is a "logical method", says a spokesperson for the Interprovincial Consultation. The provinces are already making a "sharp translation" of the national obligation. “All in all, we do not recognize the view of the nature organizations that describe this situation as a historical error.”

Load Date: February 14, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")