Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Third of municipalities in financial need
NRC.nl
February 28, 2021 9:49 PM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 586 words
Byline: Titia Ketelaar, Mark Middel
Highlight: The provinces note that almost all municipalities have financial shortages. A total of 120 municipalities will not be able to complete their budget this year.
Body


Almost one in three municipalities failed to draw up a balanced budget for 2021. This concerns a total of 120 municipalities that will not be able to complete their budget this year. Almost without exception, the other 216 municipalities have had to make tough policy choices, make significant cuts, use their reserves or increase the costs for residents in order to balance their budgets until 2024. This is evident from research by NRC of all 336 supervision letters that the provinces send in response to the budgets submitted by the municipalities.
Also read the background story:
Nineteen municipalities were not included because they have just merged or will do so next year.
Twelve of the 336 municipalities are under the province's guardianship, three more than last year. They were unable to achieve a balanced budget year until 2024 and must submit a recovery plan in the coming months. But the number of twelve "masks" the problem, says Floor Vermeulen, deputy in South Holland (Finance, VVD). “You see that in some municipalities the municipal council has decided at the last minute to use incidental money to relieve structural burdens or that reserves have been used. That is bailing, not closing the gap.”
In Groningen, deputy IJzebrand Rijzebol (Finance, CDA) sees that municipalities have made cuts “with all kinds of pain and effort”. “At some point it stops. Then their ability to resist has disappeared or they can no longer withstand any setbacks. Three-quarters of the municipalities have approached that hour.” For residents, the financial shortages mean that further cuts will be made in the coming years on facilities, while costs such as property tax (ozb).
Also read this news from last Friday:
The largest deficits in municipal budgets are in the social tasks of the municipalities, such as youth care, social assistance and the Social Support Act (Wmo), which arranges support for the elderly so that they can continue to live at home for as long as possible. These tasks were transferred to the municipalities in 2015, often accompanied by budget cuts.
Don't take corona into account
Due to corona, the financial position of municipalities is further deteriorating. Many supervision letters warn that municipalities have not taken this into account. Warnings are also given about upcoming tasks, such as the Environmental Act and the implementation of the climate agreement. No money has yet been made available for this.
Negotiations are underway about a redistribution of the Municipal Fund, the money that municipalities receive from the government and which provides 85 percent of their income. But, provinces warn, some municipalities are already taking more money into account in their multi-year budgets. While a concept shows that 159 municipalities will suffer during the redistribution.
In 120 municipalities, the budgets were structurally balanced until 2024, although in some provinces it was not possible to determine how municipalities achieved this. For example, the province of North Brabant conducts "limited" research if the municipality's annual budget provides "a sufficiently complete picture".
That province concludes, like most provinces, that all municipalities could only achieve a balanced budget through drastic measures. Zeeland talks about “a lot of effort”. A number of provinces state: "Municipalities are therefore increasingly less able to commit to major social tasks."
Municipal budgets p. 10-11Homeowner pays p. S10-11

Load Date: February 28, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")