Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=This country is broken and only honest people can fix it; Column Marianne Zwagerman
De Telegraaf.nl
June 10, 2022 Friday 12:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; FRONT PAGE
Length: 577 words
Byline: Marianne Zwagerman
Body


Until the last elections, where I found shelter as a displaced voter with Caroline van der Plas, I always voted VVD. I was never a member and I don't want to become one either. From no party. In any case, I never want to belong to a club again. Under the guise of loyalty you quickly have to deny and censor yourself. Let me be my own club: chairman, secretary and treasurer at the same time.
But if everyone thinks this way, the government of this country will remain in the hands of people who want to deny and censor themselves. How much the lying concrete rot has eaten away at our national administration is stated in the new edition of the civil servants' trade magazine Domestic Administration. On behalf of Hugo de Jonge, the Minister of Coercion and Obligation, civil servants must lie to MPs and other outsiders to get laws passed.
Intimidation
An official who had to update the House Committee on the Environment Act was removed from the job because he could not lie well enough: 'I had to tell them that everything was going well. But there was no good weather message to tell.' The new Environmental Act makes it easier to build homes and wind farms in the meadows that Hugo de Jonge is looking at hungrily. Under the guise of a nitrogen problem created by officials that only exists on paper, farmers are being chased from their farms so that the meadows can quickly turn into construction sites.
Being publicly critical of government policy comes at a high price. Civil servants who post critical comments on social media are told to keep their mouths shut. Some are now at home 'sick'. The software suppliers who must make the implementation of the Environmental Act possible are called to account if they comment on the feasibility. The ministry is trying to push through the law with threats, intimidation, censorship and enforced lies.
Dirty
'After twelve years of Rutte, I feel depressed, desperate, powerless, angry and intensely sad. A stranger in his own country,” a woman wrote to Wierd Duk. After twelve years I feel especially dirty. The lying culture that has grown under Rutte is sticking to our country and sticking to Dutch citizens. Abroad we are still known as the boors who straight up say what they think, in reality we have become cowardly absconders who have adopted mendacity and censorship as the new normal.
We will only get rid of this if honest people start getting involved in politics. Ronald Plasterk said in the newspaper this week: 'I was asked if I wanted to become a minister. I liked doing that. As a politician you have to represent the people. Someone has to do it in the end.' And so it is. Feeling depressed, desperate and powerless has never made anyone better. You'd rather seize power. Join the political party you left disappointed with and get them back on track.
Error
I will report to the VVD party conference in Amsterdam on Saturday together with a group of farmers. Within the VVD, a group of members have stood up against the nitrogen policy and only by supporting them and expanding the group will we hopefully get rid of this administrative error. I will not become a member, let me write columns freely and independently, but I hope that enough courageous enterprising people will. This country is broken and only honest people can fix it.

Load Date: June 11, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")