Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Deaf facade against traffic noise; 'Building along road and rail possible'
The Telegraph
May 25, 2023 Thursday
Utrecht


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 12
Length: 453 words
Byline: Michael
Body


'Building along road and rail possible'
by Michael
van Renselaar
UTRECHT - The municipality of Utrecht will apply strict noise standards so that Utrecht residents do not become completely crazy about environmental noise in the future, but is prepared to turn a blind eye when it comes to new construction projects near the railway, industrial estates and national and provincial roads. A so-called 'deaf facade' should provide solace.
This is evident from the draft Noise and Vibration Policy Memorandum published on Wednesday.
Councilor Eva Oosters: "We are continuing to build the city; there is a need for new homes, schools and health care buildings in the coming decade. Building at locations that are subject to noise pollution due to roads, railway lines or industrial estates is often unavoidable; sometimes up to the maximum limits provided by the Environmental Act."
In order to prevent noise pollution in the future as much as possible, the municipality is aiming for a so-called ambition value of a maximum of 63 decibels (dB) in the coming years. Under no circumstances may the noise in Leidsche Rijn and Vleuterweide exceed this level. In the rest of the city, 68 dB is exceptionally permitted along municipal roads. Legally, the limit value is 70 dB.
The strict requirement benefits the health of Utrecht residents, says Oosters. At the same time, it is less likely that homes will still exceed the limit value of 70 dB. In that case, the municipality must insulate the home at its own expense. "By using a lower limit value, we prevent new sanitation situations from arising due to changes in the traffic network or an increase in traffic."
However, Oosters' efforts also have disadvantages. "Stricter values ​​for noise and vibrations could possibly lead to fewer homes being built in Utrecht in specific cases. The limit value of 68 dB, for example, can be an obstacle very close to the track."
The council remains 'very cautious', but wants to make compromises if necessary. "Building homes is important to accommodate home seekers. Homes with a noise load above the legal limit values ​​of national highways, provincial roads, railways and industrial estates may under certain conditions be permitted with a deaf facade of up to 68 dB."
Deaf facades do not have parts that can open, such as a window. That immediately makes a home less attractive. Oosters therefore states that housing quality and quality of life should be 'compensated in a different way'.
The councilor is also prepared to make an exception for construction projects that have a shielding effect on a large number of other homes.
College remains
hesitant
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 24, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")