Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=A PVV narrative is up for grabs; IF ONLY IT CHANGES
NRC
December 5, 2023 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: ECONOMY; Page 6
Length: 1222 words
Byline: Martine Kamsma
Body


ABSTRACT
What ideas does the largest party in the House of Representatives have about health? They see prevention as a 'crazy patronizing instinct'. And all this while a PVV narrative in favor of healthier schools, football canteens, streets and shops is up for grabs.
COMPLETE TEXT:
As long as it changes, this section is called, assuming there is some sort of consensus on where it should go. More sustainable. And that also means: healthier. The Netherlands has goals for this. And these have been elaborated in the Prevention Agreement that the cabinet concluded with social partners in 2018 to ensure that the Netherlands exercises more, eats healthier and smokes and drinks less. But who says you have to? The largest party in the House of Representatives has its own ideas about this. And the question is what kind of change that will bring. Whether change can also mean regression.
When the PVV talks about prevention, it is not about 'lifestyle change' or tackling the 'obesogenic environment'. Those words don't sound good at all. According to the PVV election programme, prevention is: abolishing the deductible so that people do not continue to have pressure on their chest or a lump. The PVV calls prevention as most parties mean it 'an exaggerated patronizing instinct'. “The government can provide information, but it does not determine whether you smoke, drink or what you eat. No sugar tax and no meat tax." But: an affordable full shopping cart by abolishing VAT on food. Not only on fruit and vegetables, but also on Red Bull and pink cakes.
It won't go that fast, you might think when you look at the other programs. Pieter Omtzigt's NSC wants healthier school canteens, taxing unhealthy products more heavily, banning unhealthy advertising and encouraging exercise. According to NSC, prevention also means: promoting social security. Whether you have debts, how good or bad your house is and what happens in your immediate environment also determine how healthy you are. The BBB wants 0 percent VAT only for fruit and vegetables, healthy food in schools and healthcare institutions and more money for sports and exercise.
The VVD has also realized that we must "from care to health" by promoting a healthy living environment and encouraging healthy living. "Without restricting people's freedom." Of course. But the VVD wants to curb unhealthy marketing to children and continue with free school meals.
"The VVD has shifted enormously," says Jochen Mierau, professor of health economics in Groningen. What this has to do with this: employers must continue to pay wages for two years in the event of illness. "They are increasingly realizing that absenteeism due to lifestyle diseases is a huge cost item." The business community managed to lobby the sugar tax out of the Prevention Agreement in 2018, as political scientist Herman Lelieveldt has already pointed out. "I don't think VNO-NCW would do that anymore," says Mierau. Companies are shifting and the VVD is moving along.
Putting your foot on the brakes from coalition and tolerating partners is one way to temper the PVV. And otherwise there is existing legislation that stands between prevention policy and trash bin. Without us thinking about it every day, our food environment is already completely legalized. Food safety, ingredients, labels: much is laid down in European guidelines. The Netherlands has to adhere to this. The healthy living environment is also explicitly included in the new Environmental Act, which regulates what is allowed with nature, the environment, construction and housing. Mierau: "You cannot simply reverse legislation and regulations."
And finally, citizens can go to court, says Mierau. "Both the constitution and European treaties state that the government must protect public health." The Supreme Court ruled that the government must do more to combat 'dangerous climate change'. Citizens can follow the same path to combat the unhealthy food environment. Consumer organization Foodwatch is already on that track.
The PVV will therefore not be able to destroy all policies for prevention and a healthier food environment on its own. But delaying and sabotaging is possible. Plans that could hardly count on a parliamentary majority will quickly evaporate. The meat tax is the first to go through the meat grinder. And a smart sugar tax, which makes cola with sugar really more expensive than zero and oat milk, also has little chance. The argument is: expensive coke puts poor people at a disadvantage.
This was already warned in 2018: the Prevention Agreement offers few guarantees for the future. The Netherlands is bursting with non-binding agreements, but there is too little legislation and regulations to achieve the set goals. Moreover, many expenditures on prevention are not structurally budgeted. If the PVV considers prevention a left-wing hobby, the incidental financing of 170 million per year will simply stop from 2026.
Resistance
It is no surprise that resistance to well-intentioned lifestyle advice is greatest among the people who need it most, people who live in neighborhoods where people up to fifteen years of age have fewer healthy life years than a zip code away. "If you have other priorities and you keep hearing what you need to do, it will be disappointing," researcher Tim van Meurs recently said in NRC. When the government tells you to make 'smart' choices, they say you are stupid. ?
The PVV uses that sentiment. At the same time, they know very well how great the health differences are. And they make a valid point when they say that an unhealthy lifestyle is a consequence of poverty and that more purchasing power makes it easier to make healthier choices.
Herman Lelieveldt points this out and sends along what PVV MP Vicky Maeijer said about it in a committee debate about lifestyle. "Their question is not: did you eat your fruit today or do you want broccoli or Brussels sprouts tonight? But: is there enough money to eat hot food or will it be bread again? [...] Make groceries affordable again and abolish VAT on groceries, so that people are even able to make the trade-off between more expensive healthy and cheaper unhealthy food."
But where exactly the PVV wants to go, and for whom, is difficult to say. The party previously voted in favor of abolishing VAT on fruit and vegetables, but against motions for healthier schools and school meals.
The PVV opposes measures that would benefit the most from people who send their children to school without bread. And while a PVV narrative in favor of healthier schools, football canteens, streets and shops is up for grabs, says Mierau. “Really address this short life expectancy. Whose fault is it that people become chronically ill and die earlier? Or bring in popular role models: whose fault is it that Johan Cruijff died of lung cancer? You could say that it is the industry that is responsible for this, and the government must protect people against that."
The PVV is opposed to health measures that would benefit their voters the most
The Netherlands is bursting with non-binding agreements
In this section, four authors write about the dilemmas that arise from the major transitions in society and economy due to the need for sustainability.
Once a month Martine Kamsma writes about food production and consumption.
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
illustration Mart Veldhuis

Load Date: December 4, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")