Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Senate is diametrically opposed to Hugo de Jonge on the postponement of the Environmental Act
NRC.nl
October 31, 2023 5:07 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 437 words
Byline: Rik Rutten
Highlight: At the last minute, the Senate wants the minister to postpone the Environment Act one more time. De Jonge is not looking forward to that.
Body


Outgoing Minister of Housing and Home Affairs Hugo de Jonge (CDA) is maneuvering diametrically opposed to the Senate. A majority of the Senate wants him to postpone the introduction of the troubled Environmental Act, but De Jonge wants nothing to do with that.
On Tuesday, the GroenLinks-PvdA senate faction called on the minister in a motion to wait with the law until after January 1, 2024, the intended implementation date. That motion was co-signed by BBB, SP, PvdD, JA21, 50Plus and OPNL, the party of cooperating provincial factions. Together these parties form a large majority in the Senate.
In the motion, the parties say that several parts of the law "still have too many implementation problems to be implemented responsibly as of January 1, 2024." They fear that "major risks could arise for the legal protection and legal certainty of citizens and companies in the Netherlands" if the law is introduced now.
Lost permits
It is yet another clash between the Senate and the Cabinet over the Environmental Act. This law, the first proposal of which was written in 2013, is intended to simplify rules on spatial planning. This should make it much easier to arrange numerous permits, from a street party to a highway.
But with every step closer to implementation, the tension increases. Last week, software builders expressed their fears in NRC. Meanwhile, officials fear lost building permits and project developers who could push through their plans.
Also read: Yet another IT drama seems inevitable with the introduction of the Environmental Act
Those were not the first bumps. A year ago, the government's IT watchdog already warned about this. Internal concerns and critical officials were raised by the top officials of the Ministry of the Interior to paint a positive picture.
Problems 'solvable'
De Jonge has always maintained that the problems can be solved. With that promise, he persuaded the Senate in June to accept January 1, 2024 as the implementation date. But nothing came of his promises, a majority of the Senate now believes.
“We must learn from what went wrong in the past, and we must dare to stop when we still can,” said Saskia Kluit, the senator for GroenLinks-PvdA who submitted the motion. “And that is now.”
De Jonge, who previously called the Environmental Act “a blessing for humanity”, does not think so. He said in a response in the Senate that the motion comes too late and is "unworkable". And so he does not change his implementation plans.

Load Date: March 18, 2024


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")