Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No housing development under Schiphol flight route; ambitious housing plan off the table
De Volkskrant.nl
May 18, 2022 Wednesday 09:03 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 694 words
Byline: Marcel van Lieshout
Body


  Amstelveen has worked for nine years on the transformation of vacant offices in Kronenburg into housing for students, knowledge workers and expats. The zoning plan can be thrown into the trash bin now that the Council of State honors objections from the Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate.
The plan of the municipality of Amstelveen to convert vacant offices in the Kronenburg district into, among other things, 2,500 student rooms has been annulled by the Council of State. It is contrary to the so-called Airport Layout Decree (LIB), which imposes restrictions on residential construction under Schiphol's flight routes due to noise pollution.
On Wednesday, the Council of State ruled in favor of the Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate (ILT) - which challenged this part of the zoning plan. Amstelveen has been busy transforming the Kronenburg office area into a mainly residential area for nine years. The ILT, a service of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management, has pointed out to Amstelveen all along that large-scale housing development in a zone 4 area (a lot of noise pollution from air traffic) is contrary to aviation legislation.
The ruling of the Council of State was eagerly awaited not only by Amstelveen but by many municipalities in the Amsterdam metropolitan region and the provincial government of North Holland. In that region, tens of thousands of homes are to be built under the flight paths of Schiphol. The protracted conflict between Amstelveen and the ILT was intended to clarify where housing development is and where not possible in certain noise zones.
Special circumstances
For a zone 4 area, the regulations stipulate that 25 homes may be built there per building plan. This is to limit the number of people affected by noise pollution from air traffic. The ILT occasionally allows larger-scale housing construction, but only if there are 'special circumstances'. According to the Council of State, the Amstelveen plan could have gone ahead if the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management had granted a 'declaration of no objection'.
The latter did not happen. The municipality wrongly thought that such a declaration did not need to be requested since legal rules were changed in 2018, the highest administrative court ruled on Wednesday. “Without this legally required statement  from the minister, a large housing project like this would not be possible.”
Amstelveen itself thought that residential functions would be possible there with a 'special' approach to the vacant offices in Kronenburg. The zoning plan not only provided for the construction of 2,500 student rooms, but also 1,580 so-called 'extended stay' rooms. Knowledge workers and expats could live there for six months.
According to Amstelveen, there is no question of regular housing construction but of 'temporary occupancy'. The intention was to build 'sound adaptive'. The municipality received support from student housing provider Duwo. The GGD, which was called in to identify possible health damage due to noise pollution, announced that it had no objections. Close to Kronenburg, in the Uilenstede area, 3,400 students live under the same flight route.
Advantages and disadvantanges
Three months ago, during the hearing of the ILT's objections by the Council of State, it became clear once again how the benefits and burdens of air traffic in the Schiphol region must always be weighed. The ILT emphasized that housing shortage (and certainly student housing) is a major problem in the region. But air traffic also represents a social interest, according to the service.
The village of Rijsenhout (municipality of Haarlemmermeer) has been experiencing for years what this weighing of benefits and burdens can lead to. That village has been trying to prevent the exodus of housing that has been taking place for years, but is encountering even stricter regulations than those that apply to Amstelveen.
Administrators in the region, from the provincial government to those in Amsterdam, fear that housing construction will come under even more pressure when the new Environmental Act comes into effect next year. In this law, all kinds of noise pollution are added together to determine whether or not a place can be lived in.

Load Date: May 18, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")