Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipalities juggle with construction fees; 'Making money from permits is not allowed, but you can shift the costs'
The Telegraph
August 24, 2021 Tuesday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 20
Length: 521 words
Body


'Making money from permits is not allowed, but you can shift the costs'
For a building permit for a home you pay €1,700 in The Hague and €10,829 a little further in Oegstgeest, according to research by Eigen Huis into construction fees this year. "Such enormous differences cannot be explained," says a spokesperson for the interest group. Oegstgeest even added 18% this year.
In its annual study, the Eigen Huis Association compared what municipalities charge for a small renovation requiring a permit up to €10,000 and what they charge for an average new-build house with a construction cost of €170,000. Including land and VAT, such a house costs more than double.
 In 41 municipalities, construction fees increased by more than 10%. Costs fell in 14 municipalities. For example, Putten now asks €3073 for a new-build home, compared to €4831 last year. On average, construction fees increased by 3%. The first prize for the strongest increase in new construction goes to Montfoort. In the Utrecht municipality, construction fees increased by 53% to €8,469.
Renkum in Gelderland was a leader in small renovations. For this you have to pay €450 to the municipality (+65%). "At the request of the municipal council, we have made the fees for building permits more cost-effective," says councilor Joa Maouche. "Previously these permits cost less, but then all taxpayers paid the rest through property tax and the like." In The Hague you pay €100, in Veenendaal in Utrecht it is no less than €978.
At Eigen Huis they have already heard many explanations for the sky-high price differences for exactly the same document. "Some municipalities say: the civil servant works in a building, we take those costs into account."
There are just as many question marks at the WoningbouwersNL trade club. "You sometimes suspect that municipalities have run into budgetary problems," says researcher Jannes van Loon. He emphasizes that fees only concern costs incurred for the building permit. "It is separate from the costs for spatial development. "
Harmonize
Eigen Huis' director Cindy van de Velde finds the price differences in construction fees unbearable. "We therefore call on municipalities to use the introduction of the new Environmental Act on July 1, 2022 to harmonize the rates."
“In principle, fees must cover costs. You are not allowed to earn on it," says spokesperson Esther Verhoeff of the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG). "But you can shift fees, with one becoming cheaper and the other more expensive. Political choices are made in the amount of fees. As a municipality, for example, you can keep the sewerage tax, which everyone pays, as low as possible by increasing others."
Grow
According to the VNG, it also depends on the type of municipality and whether it is a long-term construction project. It can then take up to ten years before the fees are collected, after many costs have first been incurred. "A growing municipality with new-build neighborhoods has a relatively large turnover of relatively easy building applications. That will make a difference in the average costs."
'Huge differences cannot be explained'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 23, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")