Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Major law change could delay expropriation of farmers
NRC.nl
May 8, 2023 6:42 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1068 words
Byline: Pim van den Dool
Highlight: The Environmental Act can complicate the procedure for expropriating farmers. That could cause delays, experts fear. "Expropriation will simply take more time."
Body


Expropriating farmers will be even more difficult than anticipated. This threatens to further delay the already difficult approach to the nitrogen crisis. Experts warn about this, pointing out the consequences of the introduction of the Environmental Act on January 1, 2024. This law changes the legal procedure for expropriation, which is expected to mean that the expropriation of farmers will take more time. Other crucial elements, such as granting permits, may also be delayed due to the new rules of the Environmental Act.
The experts' fears are in line with a warning given by the Council of State in its annual report last month. The Council called the introduction of the Environmental Act "risky" at "a time with major challenges in the areas of infrastructure, energy transition, housing construction and nitrogen".
Also read this article: The annual report of the Council of State appears to have been drawn up by a whistleblower who abandons the academic tone
The government and provinces particularly want to focus on voluntarily buying out farmers around nature reserves in order to significantly reduce nitrogen emissions. The government does not rule out expropriation if too few farmers want to stop. The coercive measure will not start before January 2024, the cabinet previously communicated. This means that expropriation will fall under the new regime of the Environmental Act. This coincidental coincidence may now have unforeseen consequences for the nitrogen crisis that were barely discussed during the years of parliamentary debate on the Environment Act.
The law, the biggest change in environmental law in decades, combines dozens of laws and hundreds of regulations and should simplify the procedures surrounding spatial planning. The law was approved by the Senate in 2020, but its introduction was postponed five times, partly due to problems with the software that municipalities and provinces must use: the Environment Act will come into effect on January 1, 2024.
The threshold for appeal is lowering
The House of Representatives will again debate the nitrogen approach for the coming years on Wednesday. Experts expect that an expropriation under the new law will take longer. Under the current law, these last an average of two years and now proceed as follows: a municipality requests expropriation through an administrative procedure, which the court then pronounces. No ordinary appeal is possible against this, only cassation to the Supreme Court. That is a legally and financially high threshold. Under the new law, the procedure changes: the court must ratify the municipal council's expropriation decision, after which an appeal is possible to the Council of State, a relatively simple and virtually free route for expropriated persons.
“The threshold for appeal is becoming lower, so there is a good chance that every farmer will soon go to the Council of State,” says Gert-Jan de Jager, a lawyer at the Kneppelhout firm specialized in expropriation cases. “It will take some time before you have rulings in two instances, so expropriation will simply take more time.” Lawyer and professor of expropriation law Jacques Sluysmans (Radboud University) expects that the new appeal option could take a year more time and cases could take up to three instead of two years. Because drawing up a new zoning plan for farmland often takes years, expropriations prepared next year may only provide nitrogen space from 2028 onwards. Only a final expropriation counts towards reducing emissions.
This will be pioneering under new law. You don't want thatJacques Sluysmans professor
In 2019, the Advisory Committee on Land and Environmental Law of the Senate noted that the current procedure for expropriation has "an important filtering effect", because many cases are now settled before they reach court. The number of appeals will be "significant" under the new regime, the committee predicted, with a number of negative consequences: "increasing pressure" on the Council of State, rising costs and longer procedures.
The fact that more cases will go to the Council of State is a problem, because it is already under great pressure. The Environmental Law also stipulates that the Council must make a ruling in a case involving Environmental Law within six months. Whether this is feasible is very doubtful: the administrative justice department had about fifty vacancies at the end of last year and the backlogs and processing times of cases are already increasing, the Council recently warned.
Structure of case law
The Environmental Act can delay the nitrogen crisis for another reason: after the introduction of a law, new case law must be built up, which takes time. The Council of State warned in its annual report that a major change in law such as the Environmental Act leads to "numerous new (legal) questions, which will be litigated up to and including the highest court." It may take years before “the associated uncertainty for implementation practice is removed,” the Council wrote. For the nitrogen crisis, this means in concrete terms that judges may need more time to reach final decisions on permits, which can, for example, delay construction projects.
It was already a reason for the Council to call on Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge (CDA) to introduce the Environment Act in phases, because this "can help prevent stagnation". De Jonge ignored this advice.
Also read this article: Buying out is allowed, now we just have to find farmers who want to do so
Professor Sluysmans also fears that the introduction of the Environmental Act will "call into question" the guarantees offered by the current law and could lead to years of legal uncertainty. For a decisive approach to the nitrogen crisis, the government and provinces should have started buying out much earlier, Sluysmans believes. He points to the successful expropriation of a number of farmers for the construction of new nature and nature management in the municipality of Krimpenerwaard in South Holland in recent years, under the current law. “Now you have to start pioneering under new law. You actually don't want that.”
The Interprovincial Consultation (IPO), the umbrella organization of the twelve provinces, states that it "cannot predict exactly what the duration of future procedures will be." The IPO says that expropriation is always “a long process and requires a lot of care.” The provinces are therefore focusing on voluntariness in the nitrogen crisis, "because this is often faster and more effective."

Load Date: May 9, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")