Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Restoring the resilience of the delta requires a vision from Rutte
NRC Handelsblad
November 2, 2017
NH-Thursday


Copyright 2017 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion; Page 18
Length: 823 words
Byline: Han Meyer
Body


ABSTRACT
Urbanization and safety in the delta require a large-scale spatial policy. A cry for help and a suggestion from forty other experts.
Delta landscapes have enormous resilience. They can absorb large amounts of precipitation relatively easily. After storms, they can quickly recover and adapt to sea level rise or increased river water discharge. This dynamic is also the basis for a wealth of fish species, shellfish and birds. Deltas thus form a pivotal point in global ecosystems.
But worldwide, delta landscapes are losing their resilience. Recent natural disasters in New Orleans, Houston, Bangladesh and Mumbai show what the depleted resilience of the natural delta system – combined with uncontrolled urbanization – can lead to.
But the Dutch delta is also losing resilience. Due to urbanization, embankment, canalization of rivers, damming, drainage and dredging of shipping channels, the absorption and adaptation capacity has sharply decreased and ecological wealth has been decimated.
The pressure on the delta will only increase as the Netherlands faces a major renovation in the coming decades. From new urban growth in the west – hundreds of thousands of new homes – to the energy transition and sustainability of agriculture. Plus further preparations for increasing extreme precipitation, drought, sea level rise and peak river discharges.
Each of these renovations will have major consequences for the spatial planning of the Netherlands. It is not possible without coordination and coherence. Then there is a threat of fragmentation and loss of the spatial qualities of our landscapes and cities.
On a local scale, the Delta Program has been combining dike reinforcement or river widening with urban expansion or nature development for several years: the new 'Waalsprong' near Nijmegen, the 'Zandmotor' near Kijkduin and the new dunes and beach at the Hondsbossche Zeewering are good examples of 'building with nature'. But the new projects make policy necessary on a much larger scale, namely that of entire regions and of the entire Netherlands.
Strengthening spatial quality and resilience are a public, national interest and should be a main task of the new government. Because the improvement of nature and the environment is the key to a coherent spatial policy.
But The Hague has regarded 'nature' as a residual item for too long. Under Rutte I, 'nature' was even completely removed from the agenda; Afterwards it was taken up again hesitantly, but has yet to become anything but a central subject of policy.
A new round of Delta Works is needed, aimed at restoring the resilience of the natural system. Together with more than forty colleagues and colleagues from the world of science, design and technology, I therefore advocate the realization of a national, coherent 'green-blue framework' of 'delta nature' that extends from the Wadden Sea to Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. To strengthen the quality of the Dutch delta, but such a spatial structure can also provide direction for urban growth, sustainability in agriculture and the energy transition.
It requires mutual cooperation between various ministries and the Delta Program, as well as consultation with provinces, municipalities and water boards. Not easy, but necessary.
Who's turn? Dutch spatial planning policy was world famous. But the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (VROM) was abolished in 2010. 'Space' was transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment (formerly VWS), where it has become virtually invisible. With the cabinet formation, 'Space' moved to the Ministry of the Interior.
The coalition agreement contains hardly a word about spatial issues and tasks. But there is a chance. In anticipation of the new Environmental Act, the government has announced that it will present a first National Environmental Vision (NOVI). This is the task of the new Minister of the Interior and Space. On behalf of the forty colleagues, I call on the new minister of this department to take up this task and to give direction to the major renovation of the Netherlands with a green-blue framework.
Recent design studies for the Southwest Delta, the IJsselmeer area and the peat meadow area in the Randstad have already indicated how safety, nature development, urban development, agriculture and spatial quality can be sustainably connected. The national government, provinces, municipalities and water boards can develop joint management for these three areas, as 'pilot projects' of the new National Environmental Vision. The Netherlands can once again become an appealing example internationally.
'Green-blue' framework from Wadden to Zeeland must give direction to the space
Han Meyer is professor of urban planning at TU Delft and author of The State of the Delta. Other signatories: nrch.nl/68x4

Load Date: November 2, 2017


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")