Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=How citizens often delay the construction of new houses themselves
De Volkskrant.nl
February 3, 2022 Thursday 08:31 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 715 words
Byline: Margriet Oostveen
Body


  Even now that the housing shortage is untenable, people continue to come to The Hague's Kneuterdijk, where the Council of State sits, to protest against the construction of new houses. They may or may not be right, but they always manage to delay construction. And their numbers seem to be growing.
Watch on a weekday as citizens throw sand into the municipal machine and you think: everyone has a point, but is that point always worth helping to maintain the housing shortage? In the hallway, a project developer grumbles about the prices that are now skyrocketing: "If we continue like this, my starter homes that we are talking about here will soon be unaffordable for starters."
Local residents Rop Monster, Woutje de Zeeuw and Usman Santi from Waalwijk complain about two planned villas to preliminary relief judge Eric Helder - an excellent name for environmental law, a forest of laws and regulations. The new Environmental Act, which is supposed to make decisions about the physical environment simpler, also appears to be so complicated to implement that it has been postponed for years - again this week by Minister Hugo de Jonge.
With a steady hand, Helder guides us through the planning situation, urban development structure and management regulations. More than thirty local residents from Waalwijk are resisting: the offending villas are located for their views of De Loonse and Drunense Duinen, a protected Natura 2000 area.
“Villas with 'indoor swimming pools',” says Woutje, slightly disgusted.
Rop: 'While many objectors built their detached houses here thirty years ago.'
Usman: 'The neighborhood was finished. And that is now being disrupted.'
This often appears to be the main argument: the status quo should not change. But objectors mainly talk about nature or nitrogen to make their case more likely. 'Nimbyism has always existed', stated an essay in the FD last spring about the increase in 'not in my backyard' procedures, 'but has gained enormous braking power due to the tightened regulations regarding the preservation of nature and landscape'.
In how many environmental cases per year do citizens want to thwart housing development? Strangely enough, the Council of State does not know exactly. They do not specifically register this with the environmental chamber, because it is 'not important' for their own planning.
When asked, I receive an overview of the total number of environmental cases that the Council of State was dealing with: nature, felling and environmental permits, route decisions, cases about housing construction. At the last full annual count, in 2020, there were 3,524. For comparison: in 2019 there were 'only' 2,608. An increase of more than a quarter.
In April last year, following a judgment by the European Court, the Council of State also expanded access to justice for local residents and environmental organizations who had not previously objected: good for complaining local residents, again bad for housing.
This day, Judge Helder will also consider an issue in Bergeijk, where local residents want to stop the construction of forty homes for starters and seniors because they do not like the design, but they mainly screen with trees. And a room further away, residents from Schalkwijk have cleverly united under the name 'Stichting Natuur Vroeger', because they do not want the municipality of Houten to build thirty much-needed homes in an old orchard. 'There was only one house for sale in this village last year, sighs the municipality's project leader.
The province determines in so-called 'red contours' where urbanized areas may be expanded. Many municipalities only get this opportunity when the built-up area is fully built up where possible. Almost every patch of houses leads to new objections from local residents.
Nitrogen procedures also hold things up. How skillfully municipalities anticipate this is evident in the Waalwijk case. The municipality believes that the expected nitrogen increase due to two new villas can be offset by one horse, which would once have grazed on this site when it was still fallow. It has been decided that the residents of the villas will never be allowed to keep a horse again. This is called 'internal balancing of the horse's nitrogen disposition'.
"But no horse has been grazing there for years," says the counsel for the objectors. 'Several residents can confirm this. And the postman.'

Load Date: February 3, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")