Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Professor: 'Fewer Natura 2000 areas? Let the Netherlands finally achieve its goals first'
De Volkskrant.nl
September 26, 2019 Thursday 05:07 PM GMT


Copyright 2019 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Length: 758 words
Byline: Marcel van Lieshout
Body


  According to the Remkes Committee, the Netherlands can aim for fewer Natura 2000 areas. Ho ho, says professor of nature conservation law Kees Bastmeijer: The Netherlands must finally achieve the European agreed goals, then comes the continuation of projects.
What was and is all the fuss about with the 'nitrogen problem' again?, sighs Tilburg professor of nature conservation law Kees Bastmeijer. The country is in turmoil, construction projects are at a standstill, road construction is being postponed or postponed, but the real goal of tackling nitrogen emissions and deposition sometimes seems to be lost from sight.
Because the point is this: the Netherlands does not meet European agreed nature goals in any respect. The story began with that unequivocal finding by the European Court of Justice almost a year ago.
Acidification and eutrophication of valuable nature reserves must not only be stopped, much must also be restored. Bastmeijer: 'Little attention is paid to the question of how the nature objectives of the Natura 2000 areas can actually be achieved. The concept of nature objectives at the level of Natura 2000 areas appears no less than seven times in the entire report of the Remkes Committee.'
On the other hand, the Remkes advisory committee has no shortage of projects, both verbally and in writing: making it possible for housing construction to resume; that the overgrown agricultural sector is being 'warmly' reorganized; that the expansion of the road network, deemed necessary, will not be inconvenienced. The much-heard jubilation about the first advice from the Nitrogen Problem Advisory Board is a source of suspicion?
'I think the intention and main message of the advice are good. That there must be an end to legal tricks. And that drastic measures are needed at the source. But there is a lack of thorough legal exploration of the possibilities for licensing new plans and projects. The report does mention possibilities, but they are not tested critically enough against the requirements and criteria set by first the European Court and then the Council of State. 'You are referring to the proposal: we are taking measures to combat emissions - for example through new technology or closure of a company – and the profits from this provide room for new economic activity?
'Yes, the Remkes Committee simply assumes that there are possibilities for this, but that is highly questionable. The European court says: measures that are necessary to achieve the nature objectives of an area and to prevent further deterioration cannot be used to allow new nitrogen-emitting projects. The Council of State is slightly more lenient: it is only allowed if you have a good story about how you will certainly achieve the goals for Natura 2000 areas in the long term. That story does not yet exist for many areas. Do you doubt the sincerity of the committee in finally opting for nature goals?
'No. The committee states that choices must now be made in favor of nature. The point is: you shouldn't have any noise in this file. We've had to deal with that long enough. The crux is that certainty must be provided that nature will improve. But just as with air and water pollution, you see a great inclination towards projects and plans, and then the legal complications follow. 'It is a bit hidden in the advice, but in an oral explanation, committee chairman Remkes hinted that it must also be looked at the legal options for reducing the number of Natura 2000 areas.
'That shouldn't be the direction. Three quarters of our Natura natural values ​​are in an unfavorable condition. The Nitrogen Tackling Program has offered little relief. If we continue at this pace, a valuable area like Kampina in North Brabant will still be red in 2030. 'We do not have the best reputation in the Netherlands when it comes to protecting and strengthening nature. Politicians are not quick to stick their necks out for this?
'Sometimes! For example, Tjeerd de Groot, the D66 MP who advocates halving the livestock population, recently submitted an amendment to record the achievement of the 'favorable conservation status' for species and habitats in the new Environmental Act. Completely in accordance with European law. Then you notice how an organization like the Interprovincial Consultation immediately puts up enormous resistance! The same provinces that are now given such an important role in achieving the nature goals in Remkes' advice.'

Load Date: November 26, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")