Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Kudos to the councilor. He is committed to us
NRC.NEXT
January 27, 2018
Next Saturday


Copyright 2018 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion; Page 8
Length: 1740 words
Byline: Gijsbert van Es
Body


ABSTRACT
Call
Municipal elections
The municipal elections are coming. wants more respect for those who make your neighborhood, village and city better.
89 Readers' Call Do you have confidence in your municipality?
Municipal councilor – it must be a tough life. It takes loads of time. It pays poorly. Status hardly matters. At least, this is the picture that emerges from a survey among 1,287 council members, recently conducted on behalf of ten regional newspapers in North and South Holland. Question: Why are you a councilor? The most frequently given answer: Because I want to contribute to society.
And how does society reward them? Four out of ten council members complain about a lack of appreciation from fellow townspeople or villagers. It is at the top of the list of unpleasant side effects, followed by meager pay, compared to the many hours it takes to read piles of policy documents, hold meetings and keep in touch with 'the citizenry'.
In an average-sized municipality (approximately 50,000 inhabitants), a councilor receives 1,248.42 euros per month. Gross. A paper route would yield more, converted to an hourly rate.
 The harsh wind that hits council members has also been blowing my way for some time now. I (temporarily) exchanged my work as an NRC journalist for a job as a municipal official. At parties I can now respond to prejudices about sticky bureaucracy and clichés about local government.
On Wednesday, March 21, ten million voters in 335 municipalities will be able to appoint approximately eight thousand council members. A national holiday for democracy? Not really.
 Two trends are working against each other. On the one hand, voter favor is fading. Turnout has been declining for decades. At the previous elections, in 2014, it was only just above half (54 percent). In dozens of municipalities, parties have great difficulty finding enough candidates for their electoral lists. Where the bar for selection is forced to be lower and lower, criminal infiltrators see their opportunity to extend their tentacles to the administrative upper world.
 On the other hand, the number of municipal tasks and concerns is growing in size and importance. The Municipal Fund, the local fund, contains 30 billion euros. That is almost twice as much as four years ago. Have the municipalities received so much extra money? No, on the contrary. The government transferred youth care, social work and other social tasks to the municipalities in 2015, including major cuts in this sector.
 Imagine achieving that: renovating an entire sector while cutting around five billion euros from the budget. And to think that this directly affects the lives and well-being of approximately one and a half million Dutch people in weaker positions. Every year, 370,000 children and young people turn to youth care (more than 10 percent of all 0 to 17-year-olds). The new-style home help is committed to more than one million disabled and/or elderly Dutch people (6 percent of the population).
 Municipalities will soon have another major challenge to deal with, due to the introduction of a new Environmental Act. In a densely built-up country like the Netherlands, issues such as planning and building designations remain a tough point of contention.
 In the meantime, the country itself is also changing, without the government piling reorganization upon reorganization. The population is aging, the rural areas are emptying out. The urban area is crying out for more rental properties and the owner-occupied sector is considerably stretched. Angry citizens, often in 'old neighborhoods', grumble about the arrival of their new neighbors, who are sterilely packaged in administrative jargon as 'status holders' and 'labor migrants'. Climate change is increasingly causing storm damage and excessive rainfall that reaches behind the front door - for which 'the municipality' is then blamed.
Enough problems listed, draw the line below, on balance: there is less and less democratic legitimacy, or support, for increasingly onerous tasks that weigh on the increasingly narrow shoulders of council members, aldermen and mayors.
 Certainly, this gloomy image can be exposed in a different, more colorful way. For example, in 2015 the Ministry of the Interior provided encouragement by issuing a three-year 'Democratic challenge'.
 How? With an "experiment and learning program, aimed at renewing local democracy." Why? "Because our structures, [councils, municipal councils and civil service organizations], sometimes stand in the way of the necessary innovation." What? Almost too many to mention. Website, social media, conferences, festivals, network meetings – the ministry has used all the power of modern communication in recent years to give local innovators the wind in their sails.
 An example. Oldebroek, Breda, Cuyk, Emmen, Oss, plus a handful of other municipalities are experimenting with citizen budgets. A neighborhood is allocated a large sum of money, the residents divide the money. In neighborhood meetings, they opt for, for example, better children's playgrounds, extra neighborhood activities for the elderly, communal vegetable gardens, or longer opening hours for the swimming pool.
 Dozens of similar novelties have been tested in all regions of the country. They bear playful names such as 'Eigenwijks Nieuwegein', 'Mooi, meer, Middelland' (a neighborhood in Rotterdam) and 'Nieuwe Ronde, Nieuwe Kansen' (in Coevorden). Goal? Bringing government closer to the citizens. And vice versa: challenging residents to put aside their role as grumbling Muppets and take action themselves.
The most ambitious experiment in this area comes from Belgium, devised by writer David van Reybrouck and explained in his book Against Elections (2013). It bears the name G1000. In recent years, G1000 meetings have been practiced in Amersfoort, Enschede, Groningen, Amsterdam and Uden, among others. Believers argue that such a G1000 will produce a better local agenda and smarter, more widely supported solutions than most actions that bubble up from the existing governance bubble.
But there is just as much criticism – of both the G1000 phenomenon and other democratic trials and experiments. It fits in with the chorus of opinion writers who sneered at the king when he had to read out in the 2013 Speech from the Throne: "The classical welfare state is slowly but surely turning into a participation society."
The core of the criticism: promoting participation is a shameful act from the government that is making blunt cuts in order to leave the weaker people in society to their fate. Administratively, such participation would not mean anything either. Old wine in new bottles, that's it. The indigenous, highly educated elite, who provide personnel for all boards (not only of parties and factions, but also of foundations, associations, institutions, etc.), may play the game in different ways, but it remains one and the same network of usual suspects. Call it: the foul-mouthed democracy.
That criticism makes sense, to some extent. But I'm an optimist, maybe even an idealist. I believe in the power and necessity of active citizenship – everywhere and certainly close to home, in municipalities. From a word by Voltaire: 'Il faut cultiver notre jardin.' Dutch translation: "If you want to improve the world, it is best to start hoeing and sowing in your own garden." When every world citizen does this to the best of his or her ability, in our own hometown, we can all go a long way.
 For that reason alone, I think that municipal councilors deserve respect, because I sincerely believe in the good intentions of the vast majority of them - regardless of their political positions and choices.
 I have been active as a volunteer in my hometown for about ten years. With a group of like-minded people I founded a 'City Lab', which has now taken on dozens of jobs to make our city 'more beautiful, more creative, more enterprising, greener, more social'. In 2011 we won an award as the 'most innovative volunteer organization in the Netherlands'.
Now I am, temporarily, a municipal official. I consider this a social internship. Upon returning to journalism, I experienced from the inside how complicated 'good governance' can be. Conflicting interests. Scarce resources. Political choices, necessary compromises. Public opinion, flat image. Force majeure, coincidence. And the eternal human shortcoming – that too every now and then, as everywhere else.
When municipal politics make it to the national media, it often concerns shady practices by office holders, rearguard actions against cannabis growers, or construction projects that cost millions more than previously estimated. Rightly so, that's news.
 But it is also news that tens of thousands of care providers have also put their heart and soul into helping hundreds of thousands of children and elderly people in difficult situations every day over the past four years. That municipalities have invested billions in neighborhoods, in public spaces, in greening petrified areas. That traffic congestion has been resolved. That millions of subsidy money has been well spent on home insulation. That money has been invested in better school buildings, theaters and sports fields. That administrators and civil servants do not just arrange this from behind their desks and conference tables, but - on the contrary - can be found in the neighborhoods all the time.
 Opinions are free and exchangeable. Clichés are nonsense. City councilors also talk a lot, some undoubtedly too much. But they also do something – they have ideas, wishes, plans that they want to realize.
No one needs to shout hosanna for council members, on the contrary: democracy thrives on critical debate. But in the meantime, voters can show respect for them by voting on March 21.
I believe in the power of active citizenship – especially close to home
Gijsbert van Es is NRC editor. Since spring 2015 he has been working temporarily (on a secondment basis) for the municipality of Leiden.
Call: My municipality is great!
How do citizens maintain confidence in their municipality? NRC wants to know this from you in the run-up to the municipal elections of March 21. Concrete examples of what went well and what improved. The library that remained, the sports field that was added anyway, the meeting place for the elderly or young people. But also from that one director who dared to row against the current and was proven right. Send your contribution of maximum 300 words before March 5 to opinion@nrc.nl with 'top municipality' in the subject line.

Load Date: January 26, 2018


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")