Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Letters sent: 'I am ashamed of this cool country'
De Volkskrant.nl
October 11, 2022 Tuesday 12:53 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 982 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


  Today's reader letters: about refugee shelter, education, red or green cards and overpopulation.
Letter of the day
Refugee reception in the Netherlands appears to be inadequate. People had to spend the night outside, and many suffered from health problems afterwards. Doctors Without Borders intervened.
It is difficult for me to imagine that it is not possible to arrange space and shelter immediately, but that you cannot provide medical care in an emergency situation? In such a 'cool' country like the Netherlands, that shouldn't be a problem. But yes, there must be a will. Now there has been a court ruling: the problem with the shelter must be resolved within a certain time.
You would think that the government would now throw its weight behind it. But no, they will appeal. I am ashamed.
Herman Beuvens
Overpopulation
In addition to the nitrogen problem, there is also the problem of water management and zoonosis, Ibtihal Jadib rightly notes in her column (First, 11/10). There is another topic that almost no one dares to tackle, and that is overpopulation.
Due to overpopulation, we slaughter billions of animals for food, there is overfishing, carbon dioxide enters our atmosphere and the diversity of nature has been murdered by billions of people.
Almost all topics in the Volkskrant are focused on human problems and occasionally on problems in nature. The basic problem of overpopulation is still too much avoided.
Dick Speijers
Participation
There is a misconception in the sophisticated Netherlands about what participation entails. For example, Peter Kool (O&D, 10/10) writes that it is striking that Sharon Dijksma submits a piece about 'Cities and residents who are sidelined in climate plans' (O&D, 7/10).
According to Kool, Dijksma's councilor in the municipality of Utrecht is a 'textbook example of pretending that citizens have a say through 'participation', after which she decides on what she already thought in advance.'
Participation means participating in discussions, thinking along and making your opinion heard. It does not mean that you can order the municipality to carry out your wishes. The municipality is free to disregard your opinion in the weighing of interests and come to a different decision. This cannot be otherwise with multiple interests. The misconception about participation and participation does not bode well when the Environmental Act comes into effect.
Luuk Spruit
Demand cartel
Peter de Waard discusses the idea of ​​a 'demand cartel' of oil importers as a counterpart to the 'supply cartel' Opec (11/10). Such a demand cartel existed: until about 1970, the major Western oil companies ('Seven Sisters') worked together to keep the oil price low, with political and, if necessary, military support from the British and American governments. The creation of Opec was a response to the market power of this demand cartel.
Camiel van Altenborg
scandalous
“Sector wants money from government,” I read on Saturday in Firstly about the poultry breeders. What a strange reflex it is for companies to want to be financially compensated in the event of a setback. I've never seen the headline 'Company deposits unexpected profits into tax pot', even though that would make just as much sense.
The poultry sector is doing very well. They have been ignoring clear warnings from virologists for decades about the risks of bringing together bizarre numbers of birds in a small area. This also ignores the fact that food suitable for humans is given to chickens en masse. Against their better judgement, poultry companies took increasingly greater risks, which is now turning the tide: bird flu is here to stay and millions of chickens have already been culled this year.
Why on earth do I have to pay for that? Companies that take too many risks can go bankrupt. That's how it should be, it's their own problem. Just let them go bankrupt.
This is not about energy or medicines, but about products that we can easily do without. How bad will it be if we can no longer eat chicken meat or if we have to pay more for our eggs? Compared to our real problems, we would hardly notice it.
René Dijkgraaf,
Green card
Yesterday I took my grandson to his soccer practice. Afterwards we talked about yellow and red cards. 5-year-old Sinne asked why referees don't give green cards. Why only repressive interventions? Indeed, give out a green card for uplifting or sporting actions. It definitely makes for a sportier game.
Gaston Guest,
Educational problems
On Monday morning I watched with amazement the launch of Minister Dennis Wiersma's new site on WNL: www.leeroverzicht.nl.
Let Minister Wiersma first 'help' with all those children who have been wrongly expelled from school, who are pushed into the 'homeschooler' box, who are stigmatized, whose family situation is disrupted, as a result of which parents can no longer work and who are thrown out of the box. be sent to the wall.
His predecessor, Arie Slob, had come up with 'appropriate education', which did not work. Millions of money is spent on education for teachers and everything that surrounds it, but no one wants to put energy into a real interest in getting a child back to school. They are all too busy for that – with themselves and with appreciation for their work.
Tell me why my child is no longer welcome, and why there are 15,000 children at home who have no prospects whatsoever, except to talk to the next 'professional' every time, who then says: 'As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to go to school anymore. '. And professionals who give the advice: 'just say what you want'. As if a 17-year-old who has been left out for five years should know that.
By the way, I would also be happy if my child was 'where he should be' again, because that means that I can also start looking for work again. Maybe even on the new site.
Carin van de Ploeg

Load Date: October 11, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")