Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Implementation of the Environmental Act postponed for the fifth time, now to January 2024
NRC.nl
January 26, 2023 6:43 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 391 words
Byline: Koen Marée
Highlight: The necessary digital infrastructure for the introduction of the Environmental Act is "sufficiently ready", says Minister Hugo de Jonge. However, the entry into force of the law will be postponed for another six months.
Body


The introduction of the Environmental Act has been postponed for the fifth time. Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning, CDA) wrote on Thursday that the law must now come into force on January 1, 2024, six months later than the date decided last October. The Environmental Act should significantly simplify spatial planning procedures in the Netherlands. For the time being, the construction of suitable software poses a number of problems.
The main reason for the repeated postponements was that the necessary digital infrastructure, the Digital System for the Environment Act (DSO), had not yet been completed. Permits must be able to be applied for in the DSO, for example for felling a tree. The system must also provide citizens, governments and stakeholders with insight into what is and is not permitted in the physical environment. The DSO is now technically "sufficiently ready" to come into effect, De Jonge reports in the letter to Parliament on Thursday. A so-called stabilization period will run until next summer, during which the software suppliers will further test their product and will no longer add major functionalities.
Also read this article: Ministry was too rosy about the Environmental Act
DSO file continued to arise
However, De Jonge has opted for a new postponement until January 2024, in which he complies with administrators of large Dutch municipalities such as Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht. At the end of last year, they called for the introduction of the law to be postponed until 2024, because they consider a period of six months necessary to organizationally prepare their municipalities for the final introduction.
The Environmental Act was supposed to come into effect on January 1, 2019, but was then postponed for two years. The corona crisis was then the reason to set a new date, after which the DSO file continued to arise. At the end of August last year, it emerged that Minister De Jonge had misinformed the Senate about the progress of the Environmental Act. The ministry had presented matters too rosy. De Jonge had told senators in May that the digital basis for the law would be delivered "as planned". Wrongly, as it turned out.
Also read this article from October: ICT advisory board warns: 'major social risks' when introducing Environmental Act

Load Date: January 27, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")