Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Chamber: Cabinet is moving too fast
The Telegraph
April 3, 2020 Friday
Entire Edition


Copyright 2020 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 06
Length: 771 words
Byline: Alexander Bakker
Body


List of 84 urgent laws to be dismissed as a hammer
by Alexander Bakker and Niels Rigter
The Hague - Now that the corona crisis continues, the written and video meetings of the House of Representatives as a replacement for the debate are starting to become a democratic problem. But the House is putting on the brakes now that the cabinet wants to quickly push through all kinds of laws.
It was a reasonable request from House Speaker Khadija Arib to the cabinet: make a list of legislation that really cannot wait during this corona crisis. That is, laws that have major organizational or financial consequences if they do not receive approval from the House within two months.
Worried
Last Friday, the cabinet presented the list of urgent laws, no fewer than 84 in number. Or the House can quickly tap it as a hammer piece. Some laws have been the subject of discussion for years. “Some had not even been submitted yet,” says Arib. “It has to remain somewhat realistic. After all, we also have to adhere to the rules and it is difficult organizationally. Moreover, you may wonder whether all those laws are really in such a hurry.” The message from the House to the cabinet: dim it for a moment. The House committees are now examining which laws they still want to discuss or postpone.
By the way, it is about more than legislation, says PvdA MP Henk Nijboer. “It is also about public accountability in debate. In a written procedure, a minister can dive in and send you into the woods. You can ask further questions during the debate.”
Lobbyists are working overtime to get certain legislation passed through the House, says Nijboer. The government is also not missing the opportunity to introduce legislation without difficult questions. As an example he gives the lowering of the income limit for social housing. “There is legislation that has taken years to develop. Should we now suddenly agree to this as a matter of urgency? I do not think so!"
In the meantime, ministers are sending out letters that would certainly get them thunder in normal times. Minister Bijleveld (Defence) avoids a damaging debate about civilian deaths in Iraq, during which she misinformed the House. FvD leader Thierry Baudet suggested putting sensitive topics on hold. The rest of the House does not think this is necessary.
The boss
Unlike many other countries, the Dutch parliament is still fully in office, states constitutional law professor Wim Voermans. That works just fine by postponing important topics and written procedures. But there is no question of a state of emergency; the 'coordination law on exceptional situations', with which parliament would temporarily sideline itself, remains in the closet. “The House remains in charge of the restrictions it imposes on itself,” says Voermans.
However, things are now starting to become a problem for democracy, if only because the written procedures have not been made public until now. The House is going to change that. Written reports will now be made of the meetings that are currently held by video connection.
“The voters also have questions,” says Voermans. “The House cannot remain in pause mode.” It's okay. Debates and votes officially require a so-called quorum, which requires at least 76 MPs to be present in the building. What if there is a total lockdown soon? The Senate wants to be prepared for this and asks the Council of State for advice on whether such a quorum is also allowed virtually. As Senate President Jan Anthonie Bruijn says: “Parliamentary work must always remain intact.”
The corona crisis also seems to be used by some ministers to conceal other problems. For example, Minister Stientje van Veldhoven (Housing and Environment) is postponing the entry into force of the Environmental Act. The biggest change in the law since 1848 would come into effect next year. Officially to give municipalities, provinces and water boards space now that they are busy with the corona crisis. But there is much more going on behind the scenes, such as extensive IT problems.
Parked
Or take Urgenda headache file. The government has a plan to limit even more CO2 emissions this year, but does not think now is the time to tell employees of a coal-fired power station that they will lose their jobs. The plan therefore comes later. Sources confirm that there will probably be a soft landing: burning less coal in the three remaining power stations. Lelystad Airport, another commotion magnet, has also been postponed for a year due to the corona crisis. This conveniently puts a divisive problem in the coalition.
'Some haven't even been submitted yet'

Load Date: April 2, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")