Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Children of less educated people are heavier and are more often exposed to tobacco smoke
NRC.nl
November 9, 2022 9:29 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 531 words
Byline: Charlie Ubbens
Highlight: More than one in ten children between the ages of 2 and 12 were overweight between 2018 and 2021. Obesity in children is twice as common among children with a low level of education.
Body


Children with parents who have completed at least a higher vocational education are less likely to be overweight than children of parents with a maximum of an MBO-1 education. Children of poorly educated parents are also more likely to inhale tobacco smoke. This was evident from figures in the Annual Youth Monitor Report of the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) on Wednesday. 12 percent of children aged two to twelve years between 2018 and 2021 were overweight.
In almost one in three cases, at least one parent of children up to the age of twelve with poorly educated parents is obese, an extreme form of overweight. For children of highly educated parents, this is about one in seven. Obesity in children is twice as common among children with a low level of education. Passive smoking, inhaling tobacco smoke from the environment, is also higher among children of less educated parents. Between 2018 and 2021, at least one parent smoked in more than half of the cases. This was 15 percent for children up to the age of twelve of highly educated parents.
The report shows that between 2018 and 2021, children of highly educated people played sports more often. They were also more often members of a sports club than children of less educated parents. However, children with low levels of education more often met the Exercise Guidelines, which were drawn up by the Health Council in 2017. They played outside more often, among other things.
Statistics Netherlands distinguishes between highly and poorly educated parents on the basis of the level of education achieved. A high level of education includes a completed HBO or WO study. A low level of education concerns VMBO, the first years of HAVO/VWO and MBO-1.
Fast food
Children of poorly educated parents do not eat enough fruit or vegetables, according to the CBS Youth Monitor. And according to a calculation by the RIVM in 2018, 60 percent of adults in the Netherlands are expected to be overweight in 2040. The government's ambition is to reduce obesity to the level of 1996, when a third of Dutch adults were overweight. In 2020, figures from Statistics Netherlands showed that approximately half of Dutch people aged twenty or older were overweight.
To combat the increase in obesity, municipalities have long been calling for new laws that would make it possible to ban fast-food restaurants. The number of fast food restaurants in the Netherlands is growing: over the past ten years, the number of providers increased by 12 percent. In January, the municipalities of Amsterdam, The Hague, Rotterdam, Utrecht and Ede sent a letter to the then outgoing State Secretary Paul Blokhuis (Public Health, Christian Union), in which the municipalities requested adjustments to the Environment Act and the Commodities Act.
In response, State Secretary for Health Maarten van Ooijen (CU) wrote a letter to the House of Representatives in March in which he stated that the daily food environment must become healthier or whether he can help municipalities to combat the increase in unhealthy food. The municipalities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Utrecht previously advocated a sugar tax on soft drinks. But there was no majority for this in the House of Representatives.
Also read: 'How often I am told: you are not going to decide what I eat'

Load Date: November 9, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")