Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Arrange small construction works with the neighbors
The Telegraph
April 17, 2019 Wednesday
Rotterdam


Copyright 2019 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: REGION; Page 14
Length: 454 words
Byline: Maarten Ritman
Body


by Maarten Ritman
ROTTERDAM - Small construction jobs can be arranged with the neighbors without a permit in Rotterdam. The municipality will hold a trial in four neighborhoods this fall.
Previously, anyone who wanted to install a carport, dormer window, fence or shed always had to go to the municipality first. In addition to the permit application, the fees also had to be paid. If the municipal council agrees to the plans of councilor Bas Kurvers (Bouwen), this will come to an end.
From this autumn, he wants to conduct a longer-term trial in Omicide, Nesselande, Zevenkamp and Hoogvliet with 'making small structures welfare-free and low-regulation'.
From now on, the people of Rotterdam will have to arrange this among themselves. Anyone who wants to build something must ask the nearest neighbors for permission, the so-called 'neighborhood agreement'. If they don't think it's a problem and sign for it, we can get started. “We want to make more possible for Rotterdam residents with fewer rules. The trial fits in at this time when Rotterdam residents want to arrange matters together in their own street," says councilor Kurvers.
He also secretly hopes for even better projects. “Plus, it's much cheaper. If you can arrange it with your neighbors, you don't have to pay anything. You can then spend that money on your house."
It is not yet clear how much money the municipality could lose as a result. The effect on administrative costs is therefore examined, as are the consequences for the regulatory burden, how much time civil servants spend on it, and whether it results in more or fewer appeals and objections.
Kurvers already has an idea where the money will come from if the trial proves to be a success. “If we receive fewer fees and the trial is a resounding success, you can organize the civil service differently.”
With the trial, which has a 'horizon of four years' and will last at least two years, the municipality wants to prepare for the environmental law, which will change regulations. “We want to provide more space for residents with fewer rules, as is intended by this law.”
The long duration of the trial is necessary 'to be able to make substantiated statements on the research questions'. Kurvers wants to evaluate every year. The experiences gained should be used for the 'further implementation of the environmental law in Rotterdam', he proposes to the municipal council.
The current permit system will remain in place for protected high-rise buildings that have been labeled as 'National Reconstruction Focus Area' and historical ribbons in the test areas. In addition, it remains in force if neighbors cannot reach an agreement among themselves.
“I expect this to be a great success,” Kurvers is certain. “And if that is the case, I obviously want to roll it out further across the city.”

Load Date: April 16, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")