Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=KLM against new residential area: 10,000 more complainants
De Telegraaf.nl
July 29, 2021 Thursday 8:38 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; DFT/NEWS; FRONT PAGE
Length: 588 words
Byline: Yteke de Jong
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


Local residents and airline KLM are on a collision course with the municipality of Ouder-Amstel over the construction of a new residential area of ​​4,500 homes on the A2 near Amsterdam. The residential area is located under an approach route to Schiphol, but according to the municipality, the homes are just outside the zone where construction is not allowed. KLM disputes that.
The airline has objected to the plan because the new construction will create 10,000 additional complainants. “According to KLM, the plan does not meet the administrative agreements for the area. It stipulates that no new homes may be built in outer-urban areas," a spokesperson said. The homes are built in green areas.
Fail
A long legal process lies ahead, because the current plan is only a draft. There are still two steps to go in terms of participation before a final zoning plan can be drawn up. This can be litigated.
The so-called Environmental Impact Assessment Committee ruled last week that the effects of noise pollution have not yet been 'insufficiently' mapped out. A spokesperson for the municipality of Ouder-Amstel said in a response that additional information will be provided. “We expect this will be sufficient.”
Housing construction around Schiphol has been a divisive issue between the aviation parties and surrounding municipalities for years. However, the province of North Holland is cooperating in the realization of the residential area, a spokesperson said when asked. The 4,500 homes are part of a housing plan, in which a total of 38,000 homes are to be built around Amsterdam. At the same time, the province is also concerned about noise pollution. “The plan meets the requirements,” says the province of North Holland.
Flight path
Why is Ouder-Amstel building these homes in the Schiphol flight path? “There is a need for housing in the Amsterdam region. This is the only area in our municipality where new homes can be built on this scale," says a spokesperson.
According to the municipality, hotels, offices and sports fields are mainly constructed in the zone where the noise is too great. 'Temporary' homes are also a solution, until the boundaries where housing construction is permitted are adjusted. The question is whether that will ever happen, because the new Environmental Act threatens to prevent any houses from being built in the Schiphol region.
Noise limit
However, Schiphol has not objected. In a response, the airport states that it is 'important' that new homes do not 'by definition' lead to new restrictions on air traffic. "We expect that the noise limit and the number of people affected will shrink in the coming years due to fleet renewal, the airspace review and nuisance-reducing measures that we are taking," a spokesperson said.
The residents in the Schiphol Environmental Council argue that the houses cannot be built on this site. “Our position is: construction is possible, but not under an approach route such as the Buitenveldertbaan runway,” says foreman Matt Poelmans. According to him, buyers are not sufficiently informed about the nuisance.
'Inappropriate'
“There is hardly anything on the website about noise pollution, which is inappropriate. As far as we are concerned, it is a violation of the government's duty of care, because it is not actually allowed to build there. The municipality makes construction possible with an exemption and shifts the problem of nuisance to the citizen. The future residents will come home from a rude awakening.”

Graphic

 
Image, There will be a new residential area with 4,500 homes between the A2 and the Johan Cruijff Arena., De Nieuwe Kern

Load Date: July 29, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")