Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Play king
de Volkskrant
December 5, 2019 Thursday


Copyright 2019 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: Opinion and Debate; Page 19
Length: 776 words
Byline: ARIEJAN KORTEWEG
Highlight: Willem-Alexander visits the local government.
Body


Column in Raalte
Striding doesn't help, looking haughtily even less. The age-old law of theater states: you must play the king. This means that it is precisely the bystanders who make someone king through their behavior. Think of ironing, obsequious stuff.

But what if someone comes along who is really the king, just because of where his cradle was? Does it work that way?

This is just a thought in advance of the visit that King Willem-Alexander made to the town hall of Raalte on Tuesday. A rarity: the king never goes to the civil service and certainly not to municipal councils. Raalte had therefore won the main prize. The mayor will soon explain how that worked.

Everything is arranged exemplary in Raalte. There are just enough officers outside. There is one crush barrier and a barrier tape, behind which school children with flags. Everything ready for the king in his black car.

A striking appearance among those waiting in a pink overall and a hat that says Willem - the name of her deceased horse, she will tell later. Her daughters are also in pink. At her feet a sign reads: 'Here a farming family business dies.' Her name is Masja Mooren, she comes from Ruinen and her farm has a phosphate problem. She already spoke to the King during his visit to Veeningen. 'He promised me to send a representative to our company. It has come. But he did not send a letter to the judge. That's why we're here again.'

The king is already there, still with a fine reddish beard. And indeed, the king walks up to Masha, and Masha shows that she understands how to make someone king: she falls on one knee. His daughter Stacey gives him a drawing and they talk a bit.

You would like to know whether the king noticed the tapestry with a state portrait upon entering the town hall. Would he still find it strange to be looked at by his own image?

Mayor Dadema enthrones the king to immerse him in the civil service. What a smooth machine this is here in Raalte, what a benevolent cheerfulness there is in this town hall.

A table awaits with involved officials and citizens, there is a walk past departments that deal with energy transition, integration, and environmental law. The town hall appears to be populated by officials who tell stories without hesitation, who are congratulated exuberantly by their colleagues as soon as the King has taken up his heels. Phew, that went well.

They tell him about switching with scale, about doing green together, about working from the outside in, about the nineteen eavesdroppers who talk to residents, about mirrors from outside that are held up, about a new mindset in which the civil servant looks the citizen in the eye. , about residents who are also vision makers.

The king asks many appropriate questions. For example: a civil servant is not an alien being. He lives in the municipality. Why then so much pressure to go outside? That happens naturally, doesn't it? He also wants to know how many hectares of solar panels need to be installed to supply Raalte with power (248). The king appears to be well versed in decentralization and all its associated problems.

Finally, a conversation with the eight council faction leaders, who demonstrate great solidarity. So great that unity rather than any form of polarization seems to be the problem. In Raalte, connection is the magic word, and the council members also go out a lot. When solutions come from the bottom up, political differences tend to evaporate. The king apparently senses this and asks whether representative democracy can conflict with the idea of ​​participation.

A brief farewell, then the king departs for Assen, where public transport awaits, leaving the down-to-earth Raalte in a state of excitement and contentment. Great pride, that is the predominant feeling. Mayor Dadema explains 'how the seed for this visit was planted'. "We knew that a medium-sized municipality where fun things were happening was being sought for a working visit," he says. What helped: Raalte has a positive attitude among the ministries. Moreover: Dadema was third in the Best Director election last year.

Masja Mooren is less happy. “He remembered me,” she says. 'And asked how it went. But when I said we can't get any further, his answer was: I can't do more.'

That's how it is. Our king creates a fine king, close to the people. But in the end he is also just a gentleman in a suit.
But what if someone comes along who is really the king, just because of where his cradle was?

View the original page: page 19

Graphic

 
Sharp questions.
Masja Mooren: the king still knew me.
What is it like to see yourself everywhere?

Load Date: December 4, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")