Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Landscape architect warns against squandering in the Netherlands; Adriaan Geuze: 'Cherish precious space'
De Telegraaf.nl
May 22, 2021 Saturday 11:12 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 1735 words
Byline: Wierd Duk
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


According to landscape architect Adriaan Geuze (60), our country faces a 'gigantic task'. A million new homes must be built. Water management must be adapted to climate change. The energy supply must become fossil-free and agriculture must be reinvented. “Each of these issues is comparable in scale and urgency to corona.”
When Adriaan Geuze (60) walks through the polder, which he likes to do, he misses the lark. “You no longer hear them, just like many other birds. And the insects are gone. That makes me grumpy.” In a few sentences, the internationally acclaimed landscape architect can make a connection between the disappearance of the lark and the termination of the Great Works - the ambitious, often hydraulic engineering projects from the end of the 19th century.
“We are done,” the baby boomers thought. The engineers and practitioners were removed from the ministries in the 1970s and replaced by project managers and lawyers,” says Geuze in the reception room of West8, the design agency for urban planning and landscape architecture he founded, in one of the Fenix ​​Loodsen in Rotterdam. Katendrecht. “The great works of the baby boomers were the reorganization of education, health care, the prison system, you name it. And they devised spatial planning, an impenetrable maze of official procedures, resulting in the dramatic cluttering of our unique cultural landscape.”
You have long been pointing out the clutter of the landscape due to the industrial estates, the elongated data and logistics centers, the windmills and furniture boulevards that mar the horizon. You think the central government should take back control.
“The Netherlands is extremely densely populated. It is impossible that we can continue to grow indefinitely with wind turbines, suburbs, solar fields, new nature, millions of people: that does not fit, we are too small for that. Let us cherish the precious space, the enormously rich palette of cultural landscapes that we have, and let us ensure that there is management at a high level. Given the insane challenges we face, we cannot leave the landscape to aldermen, commissioners and market parties.”
What do those assignments consist of?
“It is 1953, the dikes are breaking. This is how you should see the problems we face. A number of domains related to spatial planning are in crisis. There is a housing shortage, a million houses need to be built. That is a very major social challenge. Furthermore, we must reinvent the energy supply if we take the task of getting rid of fossil fuels seriously. Because even if we fill the whole of the Netherlands with solar collectors and wind turbines, we still won't have enough energy. We need to recalibrate agriculture: all agricultural areas, whether clay, peat or sand, are now irritated with manure. There are no more insects and birds, the landscape becomes industrial because every farmyard has tanks and silos and there are no more yard plants. The agricultural machines are so heavy that the water is 1.40 meters deep, completely destroying the soil. We must reinvent agriculture, together with the farmers. They should be able to have a normal business and earn a normal income with which they can find a wife and feed their family. But such an adjustment takes a long time, perhaps forty years. Then: the climate changes. We are below sea level and experience enormous rainfall and river water peaks. We must therefore be proactive about our water safety in the coming century. Fortunately, our water sector is well organized with people who know what they are talking about. These four issues are each comparable to the corona pandemic in scale and urgency. Compare it with the reconstruction.”
How are we going to approach this project?
“This is only possible if the central government has a position with experts who can diagnose these types of tasks and guide them in the right direction. With full discussion in the House of Representatives. So not, as is currently happening, at the consultation tables of civil society with Natuurmonumenten, the ANWB, LTO and all kinds of other lobby clubs. The voter must be directly involved in this perspective on the future. A new football field in Zeist? Can easily be arranged via existing procedures, consultation, the new environmental law and all rules from the Building Decree Act. No problem. But the tasks I am talking about require an enormous social operation. Comparable to the Great Works of previous generations. There should be a separate national authority for this.”
Despite the enormity of that assignment, you are optimistic about the future.
“Yes, because we can fall back on our rich, brilliant planning tradition. Look at how space has been created for the rivers in recent years. The redesign of the northern Waal bank near Nijmegen, for example: everyone there is proud of it. Here in Rotterdam we are six meters below sea level, but we will be the last country to be flooded. That's not going to happen to us. The battle against the water is our soul, that is the epic that binds us. Máxima was wrong when she claimed that the Dutch identity does not exist, because it does exist: the Dutch are land makers. Not poets or thinkers or gastronomes, we conquer land on the water. And then that beautiful landscape is captured by our painters. That's who we are. That is why the Night Watch will always be preserved: in Amsterdam, in the Rijksmuseum. Point."
What does the beauty of the Dutch landscape consist of for you?
“It is so stunningly beautiful. The connotation with the Netherlands is landscape. Ask a foreigner what he sees when he thinks of the Netherlands and he will answer: tulips, windmills, the horizon and the sea. We have more than eighty different cultural landscapes! The bulb soil, the floodplains, the Brabant stream valley, the drifting sands, the peat meadows, the mound landscape, high ground, peat, clay, dunes, high and low, fresh, salty and brackish. And all man-made. This has created an ecology and a person who wants to belong to it. Dutch people identify with the land on which they live; they come from Tholen or the Alblasserwaard. I think every day: what do we owe this to? I enjoy it, it makes me very happy.”
The fact that this landscape is being squandered at such a rapid pace is what you call the 'betrayal of the baby boomers'.
“They called their parents the Brussels sprouts generation, even though they had experienced the Second World War, the loss of the East Indies, the Flood, the start of the Cold War. Their parents initiated the Delta Works, built cities, and saved for their children's education. Those were not Brussels sprouts, but Napoleons. The baby boomers put the Great Works on hold – the Markerwaard was stopped in 1987 – and denied that tradition. Write it down: they betrayed it. And now we find ourselves without perspective in such an extremely densely populated country on top of those cultural landscapes. That generation makes incantations and is not concerned with the complex world of facts. Someone like Frans Timmermans who claims: 'Europe must be climate neutral by 2050'. He can't make that happen at all. As a perspective for action for the Netherlands, such a statement cannot be taken seriously at all.”
You are fighting windmills.
“Even if the Netherlands is climate neutral around 2050, companies like ASML will still say: where are we going to sit? In Bavaria, where you can see the Alps without any horizon pollution? Or in Eindhoven between the windmills and goat stables with the risk of Q fever? In the Netherlands, the idea is that the wind turbines will automatically end up in the right place through the system of subsidies. Which is not the case. Then the residents say: I can see it, I can hear it, so that windmill will be located two kilometers from every house. The result: the end of the Dutch landscape, of the IJmeer, the Waterland, the bulb region, the views at the Grebbeberg and the Posbank. There are entire parts of the Dutch cultural landscape very suitable for windmills, but other parts are completely unsuitable. Therefore: you cannot leave the design of our landscape to the aldermen. That must be a national task. We are now dealing with pure land spoilage, just like with those enormous data centers of Google and Microsoft in the Wieringermeer. They are located on young marine clay, the best agricultural soil on earth. ”
I don't hear you (yet) about the elephant in the room: immigration. The Netherlands is also so full because eighty thousand newcomers settle there every year.
“If you look at this as an engineer, it is a relevant question whether you should treat yourself to eating the landscape in such a densely populated country. That is exactly what happens when you have to build so many extra homes. A simple analysis from the spatial planning sector: we have disadvantaged neighborhoods in The Hague and Rotterdam into which we invest tax money. Now you are a farmer in South Holland, things are not going well and you are putting greenhouses on your land. Of course, migrant workers will work there. The same applies to the entrepreneur in Barendrecht, who is building a large logistics hall. Let's say one hundred and forty migrant workers come to work there. They are housed in houses at holiday parks or they go to live in those problem neighborhoods in The Hague and Rotterdam, in homes that are much too cramped, where they contract corona. So you see how closely everything in this sector is interconnected. But to return to the initial question: why can't we afford to continue to waste our landscape at this rate? This is partly because we want to live in a country with a high-quality economy. The tech region is the second pillar of our economy. Then you need highly educated people, including migrant workers from California or Bangalore with their families. They want to live in a pleasant living environment, not in a holiday park or next to a stable with Q fever. So: invest in places where there is a high-quality economy in beautiful parks, a clean environment, culture. And immediately start building a new city in the sea, off the coast at Monster. You can arrange that in a few years. That should be part of the national task we face. Time to put our shoulders to the wheel.”

Graphic

 
Image, Adriaan Geuze: “It is impossible that we can continue to grow indefinitely with wind turbines, suburbs, solar fields, new nature and millions of people.”, Eran Oppenheimer

Load Date: May 23, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")