Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Members of the States General,
de Volkskrant
September 17, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: First
Length: 2428 words
Body


Speech from the throne
It can always be better. Leaders of opposition parties are rewriting the passage in the Speech from the Throne that upsets them most. And provide a brief response to the text as a whole. Unfortunately, the PVV did not have time to participate.
In the summer of 2014 it became apparent once again that freedom and security are vulnerable - also in our part of the world, including in the Netherlands. On July 17, a terrible fate befell the 298 passengers of flight MH17, including 196 fellow countrymen. As a result, the festive tradition of Budget Day is surrounded by an edge of sadness this year. The air disaster over Ukrainian territory directly affected many, including in your United Assembly, and deeply shocked us all. Across the country, people were visibly united, in silence and mourning. That commitment and solidarity provide comfort to anyone who has to deal with a great personal loss.

The MH17 disaster and the situation in Ukraine and the Middle East make it clear how everything is interconnected in today's world. We live in an open and internationally oriented country that is an active part of the world community through personal, economic, political and cultural ties. That brings us a lot of good, but it is also accompanied by real risks and vulnerabilities. Conflicts that take place thousands of kilometers away evoke emotions and reactions in our country. This is not new, but at a time when everyone has the world in their hands via their smartphone, the social impact is greater and faster.

The situation in Northern Iraq, Syria and Gaza is leading to tensions in our country and to feelings of powerlessness and insecurity. The hatred that is destroying people elsewhere in the world must not spill over to our streets. Geopolitical developments also have a direct impact on our society from an economic point of view. A recent example is the negative consequences for Dutch businesses of the mutual economic sanctions of the European Union and Russia. The resilience of society and the economy is being tested by all of this. To counterbalance this, a fixed course and clear choices are needed. The government is grateful that there is political and social support for this and will continue to work on it.

The government stands firm for people's fundamental rights and freedoms and intervenes when boundaries are crossed. Sowing hatred, threatening violence or discriminating against population groups will not be tolerated under any circumstances. Every resident of our country must feel safe and protected. Every resident of our country should feel free to express his or her faith, orientation and philosophy of life. Combating extremism and intolerance is a core task of the government. A lot of power comes from society itself. Parents, schools, sports clubs and other parties are needed to prevent radicalization. The Netherlands is resilient in this area, building on a long tradition of freedom and solidarity.

Protection of the Dutch rule of law is not just a domestic matter. An active foreign policy, aimed at peace and security in countries and regions where these are at risk, is relevant and in our interests. We can only fulfill this responsibility in close cooperation with our international partners in the European Union, NATO and the United Nations. The Netherlands has traditionally been very aware of that task. It is not without reason that the promotion of the international legal order is included in our Constitution. This assignment is given form and content by making people and resources available for missions such as those in Mali and the anti-piracy mission off the African coast. All deployed Dutch soldiers deserve great respect.

In view of the increasing tensions in the world and the responsibilities that arise from them, the government is increasing defense expenditure. The budget is structurally growing by an additional 100 million per year. This is a break from the past. The government is also making additional one-off money available for international emergency aid and the reception of refugees in the region. For example, the Netherlands provides support to the large group of displaced people who are driven from their homes because of who they are or what they believe. New threats such as the outbreak of the Ebola virus in West Africa require an international approach and emergency assistance on the ground to prevent further spread.

In its own country, the government is working on structural recovery and growth of the economy and employment. This requires: healthy government finances, a balanced income distribution, a sustainable system of social and old age provisions, a well-functioning labor market and housing market, a future-oriented education system and affordable and accessible care. The government's eye is also focused on cooperation with the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, in order to promote sustainable development of society there as well.

For many Dutch people, access to good care is proof of the quality of society. The Netherlands has one of the best and most accessible healthcare systems in the world. It is in the interest of all people in our country that this remains the case. Good care is an indispensable basic provision. The fact is that the costs of our healthcare are growing faster than our economy. That is why agreements have been made with all parties in healthcare about increasing cost awareness, combating waste and tackling fraud. In this way, savings are achieved while maintaining quality. For the first time in many years, cost development this year is better than the original estimates. They assumed an increase of 16 billion euros between 2013 and 2017. Due to the policy implemented, the net increase will amount to 6 billion euros.

As of January 1, 2015, tasks in home care and youth care and facilities for people with disabilities will be transferred to municipalities. By organizing this close to people, bureaucracy is tackled and specific needs and preferences can be better taken into account. The goal is a flexible system of good and accessible facilities that meets the needs and freedom of choice of the individual. In this way we also strengthen the resilience of the Netherlands.

In 2015, governments and companies will make efforts to get as many people with disabilities as possible into regular jobs. Facilities in home care and youth care remain available, but people will have to deal with different conditions and adjustments in services. That demands a lot from them and can lead to uncertainty. That is precisely why everything is aimed at steering these changes in the right direction in the coming years. By providing an allowance for domestic help, many employees keep their jobs and remain the trusted face for their clients. Realizing that not everything can run smoothly with an operation of this magnitude, the government is making intensive efforts to keep implementation problems to a minimum, together with the municipalities and together with the people and organizations that provide and receive facilities. An additional 400 million euros will be available for this in 2015. The energy and decisiveness with which these major changes are being worked on deserve appreciation and inspire confidence.

The Dutch economy is proving resilient. It is encouraging that, after a number of years of contraction and rising unemployment, our country is carefully finding its way back up. The government deficit is expected to fall to 2.2 percent of gross domestic product in 2015. That is why no new cuts are necessary and approximately one billion euros in previously planned increases in tax burdens on citizens do not have to be implemented.

The wage adjustment in the public sector will be paid out in full in 2015. After a zero line of years, the incomes of teachers, police officers, soldiers and other government employees can again rise in line with wage developments in the market.

Compared to many other countries, our country's economic position remains strong. With a look at world-leading top sectors such as agriculture and food, logistics, the creative industry and water, there is certainly reason for optimism. At the same time, the economic recovery in our country is fragile and dependent on economic developments in the rest of the world, especially in important partner countries in the European Union.

The government's biggest concern is and remains high unemployment, which directly affects many people and their families. This is the government's highest priority. People who lose or are at risk of losing their job are provided with as many resources as possible to stay in work or find a new job.

The government, together with the education sector, trade unions and companies, continues to make efforts for training and guidance from work to work, and for more learn-work programs specifically for young people. An additional measure that may have an effect in the short term is expanding the possibilities to work temporarily or to follow a promising technical training course while retaining unemployment benefits. This so-called bridge unemployment benefit reduces the risks for employers when hiring employees and increases the chance of work for those who have been at home for a longer period of time. Furthermore, the right to childcare allowance in the event of dismissal will be extended by three months to six months. This allows people to fully focus on finding a new job for a longer period of time. The low VAT rate for construction will be extended until July 1, 2015, as a boost to employment in construction.

Stimulating and utilizing young talent is crucial for future economic growth. In recent years, the government has taken significant steps to increase the quality of education and teaching staff and to improve the connection between vocational education and the labor market. The reform of student financing and the introduction of the student loan will eventually free up 1 billion euros for better higher education. This money will be used, among other things, for more contact hours, more intensive guidance of students and the promotion of excellence. The public transport card will continue to exist and will be available to all MBO students. In line with agreements made with the education sectors, the government is also investing extra in primary, secondary and vocational education. Working on craftsmanship is central, with a lot of attention for the teacher himself, but also, for example, by developing a contemporary master-apprentice system in secondary vocational education.

To strengthen our country's innovative power, the government is setting up a 'future fund' for lending to innovative SMEs. The fund's returns become available for expenditure on fundamental and applied research. Delta technology is one of the innovative sectors in which our country is an international leader. The physical protection of our country against water has a long tradition. The Delta Plan, which is presented at the same time as the 2015 budget, makes our country safer and gives the Dutch water sector a strong boost.

Tackling unnecessary rules that hinder entrepreneurs and private individuals remains an important objective of government policy. In the new parliamentary year, a decision will be made on the Environmental Act, which greatly simplifies and accelerates procedures surrounding the construction of homes, offices and infrastructure.

For the longer term, the government is working on a revision of the tax system. The objective is twofold: significant simplification and stimulating employment. The latter can be done by reducing labor costs. The government's aim is that this will increase job opportunities for people at the bottom of the labor market and that everyone who finds work will actually improve. It becomes more attractive for small entrepreneurs to hire people.

The Netherlands is an export country and many foreign companies are located here. Domestic growth and jobs are largely created abroad. The government therefore wants to strengthen the policy aimed at an attractive investment climate and active support for the exporting business community. The ambitious agenda with trade missions is being vigorously pursued. Export credits are becoming more focused on emerging economies and companies have easier access to these credits.

In a European context, the government remains committed to strengthening the internal market and to budgetary discipline and structural strengthening measures within the member states. These are basic conditions for a strong European economy. Opportunities for economic growth lie in the areas of the digital market, the energy market and the current negotiations on free trade agreements with the United States and other countries.

European cooperation must focus on those areas where joint action really adds value. This is also the core of the strategic agenda for the next five years, which serves as the starting point for the work program for the new European Commission. This includes important cross-border themes such as the internal market, energy and climate policy and tackling organized crime, including cybercrime. Fair work in Europe requires equal pay for equal work within every Member State. The government is committed to this and will step up the fight against bogus constructions.

Members of the States General,

This year we celebrate two hundred years of Budget Day. During those two centuries, our country has always shown itself to be resilient and cohesive when circumstances required it - and again this summer. The government continues to work determinedly towards a vital and resilient society, economic recovery and employment growth. The reforms that have been initiated lay a foundation for the future of our country. Working on this assignment takes place in a turbulent and uncertain international environment and in the realization that freedom, security and prosperity are closely linked. Your work will also be marked by this in the new parliamentary year. You may feel supported by the realization that many wish you wisdom and pray with me for strength and God's blessing for you.
This is the text of the entire Speech from the Throne as King Willem-Alexander delivered yesterday.

Load Date: September 16, 2014


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")