Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Less, less, less politics
NRC Handelsblad
April 28, 2016 Thursday


Copyright 2016 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: opinion; Page NH_NL01_016
Length: 1070 words
Byline: Alex Brenninkmeijer
Body


Party politics is in a crisis of confidence. Don't worry about it. Rather invest in a 'democracy of citizens' as manifested in neighborhoods through apps, argues former Ombudsman Alex Brenninkmeijer.
The famous Kodak collapsed because its revenue model collapsed. Analog stoneware, but in the digital age has become industrial heritage. Stores close as online flourishes, Tesla overtakes VW diesel. Politics is not a business, but it does depend on equal laws.
Consumers either buy products or ignore them, just as they choose a party. Without the favor of the consumer, trade cannot succeed, politicians cannot do without the favor of voters. Traditional party politics has long been a sound basis for representative democracy, but the party and its representative function are rapidly eroding. Is the concept of 'representation' through parties still sufficient? There are many negative indicators.
Trust is low compared to institutions such as judges, police and media. No wonder, because the political business struggles with integrity, politicians are weighed in the media day in and day out and found wanting. The political debate is becoming coarser. Parties lose not only their ideological foundation, but also their stable support. They fill their basket with political wishes, to market the leader. In this way they hope to win voters' favor, against the daily rates of the permanent opinion polls. The 'middle' is affected by the army as a basis for government formation. Meanwhile, fortune seekers à la Moszkowicz are displaying their alleged political talent. Rutte II introduced valuable reforms, but voter favor is not forthcoming. A stable government after the elections seems an illusion.
Incidents, magnified in the media, determine the parliamentary agenda. Chairman Arib criticizes the excess of motions and parliamentary questions. Instruments that suffer from inflation. Meanwhile, the real debate is taking place elsewhere at breakneck speed, especially online. Vice President Donner, Council of State, criticizes the multitude of ill-considered legislation. On the one hand, incident-driven, and on the other hand, the result of strict agreements that prevent reflection or consideration. The political establishment is becoming increasingly intolerant towards feedback systems: judiciary, audit offices, ombudsmen, advisory boards. Party membership no longer sells, the profession 'politician' is increasingly seen as a negative point on your CV. MPs leave their seats in a hurry to get a job, while former politicians spend their twilight years as consultants or lobbyists. Aldermanship has a high risk of failure. This threatens the influx of talent. In one-person movements such as Wilders', party democracy is lacking and financing is lacking. Opportunities for his populism do not lie within the political establishment, but outside it. 'Fake parliament' sells. The extra-parliamentary is gaining market share. The parliamentary debate is not part of the revenue model, but the one-liner.
This decline is not uniquely Dutch. The Republican party establishment looks anxiously at Trump's triumphs. Success based on free attention through extreme statements. In the UK, Cameron let the genie out of the bottle with the Brexit debate. In France, 80 percent want President Hollande gone. Merkel's 'Wir purchase das' may well seal her political fate. In Stockholm, Madrid and Copenhagen, just like in The Hague, new formulas had to form stable governments, while in Hungary and Poland absolute majorities are eroding democracy. On a larger scale, confidence in European politics is poor. The Ukraine referendum was not a democratic highlight, but an indictment of European politics.
Restoration of this traditional political company seems unlikely, because the conditions for the party political revenue model are disappearing. The Dutch want 'less, less' politics, but support democracy itself with 95 percent (SCP). This democracy of citizens must be reshaped, one that suits this digital age of informed citizens. How? At Kodak they did not see bankruptcy coming and therefore were unable to avert it. Politicians do not have an answer, but the innovators in our society do.
Democracy has more forms than party democracy. People become involved in countless ways, as the reception of refugees shows. Despite resistance, much turned out to be possible at local level. Democracy is taking shape again in neighborhoods. Thousands of examples that hardly make the news. Local democracy: not based on struggle, but on involvement and integration of interests, for example through neighborhood apps.
The new Environmental Act opens doors. A law that will only become successful if the government makes room for citizen participation. 'Do democracy' mobilizes more residents than party democracy. It turns out that more is possible than politicians thought. The problem is that parties find it difficult to let go. Party politics often stifles the spontaneous democracy of residents. Whether we like it or not, we find many solutions to current issues in international consultation. In fact, national politicians often leave empty-handed. The financial crisis and the flow of refugees are illustrative. What is underestimated is the democratic value of a meeting of government representatives who jointly find solutions. This often works, but sometimes national party politics get in the way and politicians have to jump over their shadows. European countries have been making great progress through this type of consultation for decades.
What is the common thread in democratic innovation? On the one hand, the need to no longer see The Hague, Berlin or Paris as the most important centers of power. Much of that power flows away towards cities or neighborhoods and towards the international community. Moreover, majority decision-making as a decision-making method is rapidly losing value. True democratic forces are only unleashed through good consultation, where listening is much more important than speaking. It would help if the media looked a little less at The Hague as our only democratic center.
True democratic forces are only unleashed through good consultation, where listening is much more important than speaking
          Alex Brenninkmeijer, professor of institutional aspects v.d. rule of law (UU) and European Court of Auditors Rapporteur on research and innovation. @BrenninkmeijerA #lesspolitics

Load Date: April 28, 2016


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")