Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Minister Hugo De Jonge incorrectly informed the Senate about the Environmental Act
De Telegraaf.nl
August 9, 2022 Tuesday 8:39 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 378 words
Byline: our parliamentary editorial staff
Dateline: The Hague
Body


According to ICT experts, Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing) has misinformed the Senate about the Environment Act. In response to questions from the senators, the CDA member suggested that everything was fine with the complex computer system, but that was far from the truth, according to the software experts. GL and 50Plus demand clarification.
The ministry acknowledges in a response that a mistake was made. “Unfortunately, the details of the response suggested that there would be no changes to the system as of April. However, small changes still had to be made.” According to a spokesperson for Hugo de Jonge, the slip was later corrected in a new cabinet letter to the Senate. The matter was also further explained in an oral consultation, he says.
The Environmental Act has been causing the cabinet headaches for some time. The law must ensure that laws related to spatial planning are modernized, bundled and simplified. This requires a solid computer system. The project had to be postponed before because planning software for municipalities, water boards and provinces was not yet suitable. The law was actually supposed to come into effect on July 1, but De Jonge is now aiming for January 1, 2023.
Member of Parliament Saskia Kluit of GroenLinks calls it "worrying" that the Senate has been incorrectly informed by the minister. The faction submitted written questions on Monday; an unusual step for the Senate during the recess.
Not the first time
It is not the first time that the Senate has been incompletely informed about the progress of the Environmental Act, says Kluit. “How can the Senate rely on the completeness and reliability of the information that the minister shares with us,” the GroenLinks senator wants to know, among other things.
The case came to light when the Domestic Administration requested documents containing conversation reports of civil servants and software experts involved. “That letter from the minister suggests that things are stable (...) and on a number of points that is simply not the case,” says a software supplier in one of the reports. He is talking about the Digital System of the Environmental Act. An official acknowledges this, but says that the response was 'rushed'.

Load Date: August 10, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")