Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No one has time for a say anymore
NRC Handelsblad
February 4, 2016 Thursday


Copyright 2016 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Domestic; Page 6-7
Length: 983 words
Byline: By our editor Arjen Schreuder
Body


environmental code
The government wants citizens who think about their living environment. Planning agency SCP expresses doubts. Do those citizens have the time and inclination for that?
Amsterdam. The new Environmental Act promises a lot, but the government still has to fulfill those promises. Don't count outside the citizen! is the title of an essay that the Social and Cultural Planning Office (SCP) presented to Minister Schultz van Haegen (Infrastructure and Environment, VVD) on Wednesday afternoon. It is advice on a huge legislative operation: replacing 26 laws with a single law for the living environment, and reducing 5,000 articles of law to 350.
The motto of the Environmental Act is 'Simply better'. There will be fewer rules and more room for "involvement" and "cooperation" of citizens.
The concept of 'participation society' has also penetrated spatial planning. But what sounds nice in theory may not work in practice, says Andries van den Broek, one of the authors of the report. "There are high expectations and many good intentions."
Van Kooten and De Bie
In their study, interspersed with numerous cultural references, the researchers compare the government's harmonious vision of the future with "fun pong": a sketch in which Wim de Bie tries to teach his colleague Kees van Kooten a variant of table tennis in which the game is played without net, without your own half, without scoring and above all: without a winner and without a loser. "Pretpong is purely focused on the aesthetic pleasure of passing the ball to each other as beautifully, relaxed and gracefully as possible."
Unfortunately, the researchers say, this cannot be the case in the debate about our own living environment. "The design of the environment is not fun pong: it is indeed about the marbles, with winners and losers, excluding cases of wonderful win-win situations."
The new Environmental Act makes it easier for citizens, just like companies, to submit plans for, for example, the construction of a tower block, a dormer window, a beach pavilion or the installation of a windmill, and local residents of such plans are also cordially invited to think about their ideal environment.
That's easier said than done. "Participation does not come naturally," SCP director Kim Putters writes in the foreword. Because do we always feel like delving into our environment? "Just like a herder can lead a horse to water, but not to drink. can force, the government can ensure that citizens have sufficient information, but cannot force citizens to inform themselves," the essay says.
The citizen is way too busy
And do we citizens have enough time? "Citizens have to get involved in a lot these days," says Andries van den Broek. "Citizens have to participate in the labor market; they have to spend their free time in an interesting way to strengthen their identity and self-esteem; they have to support their parents. take care of them when they are old; and the ink on our report was not yet dry when Minister Kamp said that citizens must now also start thinking about the energy of the future. The question is whether citizens are not being asked too much. It appears from the law an assumption that new potential can be tapped into citizens. But is that correct?"
According to the researchers, the government has "not yet guaranteed" that information about plans is always available. An "important precondition" for this is "an independent, informative press that is focused on critical truth-finding". Particularly at regional and local level, where the spatial debate is often conducted, such a press is "increasingly less present" and that is a "worrisome development".
Even more important is that in the debate about the living environment, richer, assertive and well-educated citizens have an advantage over citizens in, for example, disadvantaged neighborhoods or regions, and over ethnic groups. The SCP notes "a difference in the ability to bear greater responsibility for one's own living environment", and that is dangerous because it could widen the gap between the environment of the better-off and the less fortunate.
The Bible already said it
The SCP describes this "accumulation of inequality" as the "Matthew effect", after the evangelist's Bible text: 'For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he will have more abundantly; but whoever has not, from him shall be taken whatever he has.” Suddenly a windmill is within sight of a problem neighborhood, and a leafy residential area remains free of unwanted buildings.
Researcher Van den Broek: "Inequality can arise. Take a highway through the city. On one side of the road, with the less good neighborhood, there is a noise barrier. While on the other side of the road, an architect who lives there can get a smart idea to build beautiful buildings with their backs to the road."
So organize contradiction and awareness, is the motto. Don't just speak about the citizen in warm words, but actually enable him to inform himself, weigh and discuss this information, and respond to it. If not, you will get a law about which people are already complaining that it is mainly intended to give aggressive project developers or vulgar real estate cowboys free rein, at least without much hindrance from citizens. Without proper supervision, they are enabled to bend the general rules to their will.
The SCP also has a cultural-historical warning ready for this last danger. The researchers refer to the pop group Madness, which sings about the charms of how to bend not break the rules in the song Baggy Trousers.
'In this debate, wealthier, assertive and well-educated citizens have an advantage'
If you don't arrange for participation, you give ordinary real estate cowboys free rein

Graphic

 
Action group GroenFront protested against the reopening of Twente airport in 2010. You cannot expect such actions to organize the living environment from all citizens, says the SCP.

Load Date: February 4, 2016


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")