Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Not sexy, but good for the country
NRC.nl
July 12, 2022 12:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 446 words
Byline: Mark Lievisse Adriaanse
Highlight: The judiciary was already fully reflecting on its own role in the Benefits Affair, Mark Lievisse Adriaanse saw. Not so the legislator.
Body


“The state is oppressive, the law is a lie,” the socialists used to sing, and on Thursday I saw a liberal former minister nod in agreement when a CDA member delivered a similar message. In court, Chris van Dam said in a lecture, as a citizen you are already 1-0 behind the government.
Van Dam was substantively one of the strongest justice spokespersons in the House of Representatives and became known as chairman of the committee that investigated the Benefits Affair. In a healthy political culture, this would have assured him of a respectable career as a Member of Parliament. In reality in The Hague, the CDA put him in an unelectable position.
Before a small but typically Hague audience of lobbyists, administrators and people with the aura of a former senator/undersecretariat at an embassy, ​​he made an important suggestion. Reform administrative law, the law that limits state power over citizens.
That too, I thought. Half of the government will be overhauled in the coming years. Much has already been written about the Environmental Act. It rarely goes away, but the operation is just as drastic. The entire practice by which suspects are tracked down and punished is changing. A project spanning decades. And then administrative law also has to go to the drawing board?
Yet Van Dam has a point. Too often, administrative law does not protect citizens against the state, but the state against citizens. Then the citizen is powerless against a state that can argue its way out of everything (and destroy lives) thanks to extremely complex legislation.
“The government is seen as the good party that serves the public interest,” said Van Dam. “And in many cases the reflection of this is that the citizen is the party that is distrusted.” Anyone who has ever faced the state in court - as a benefits parent or with minor suffering - will recognize this. An MP who would delve into revising that right "really does something good for the country," Van Dam argued. “Not sexy, but good.”
are now fully committed to their own role. The legislator does not. The toxic cocktail of fragmentation and mediacracy in The Hague does not stimulate MPs to do the Good. Certainly: there are good MPs, but they are rarely rewarded by their parties and the media. Fractions are too small for specialists. For each party, marginalization threatens or rapid success beckons. So they seek fleeting relevance – which follows from attention and attention follows from the snap opinion. On Sunday, the poll shows an extra seat, but the order has been further weakened. Not sexy, not good for the country. And especially bad for the citizen who finds the government in his path.
Mark Lievisse Adriaanse
(m.lievisseadriaanse@nrc.nl) is writing a few columns this summer.

Load Date: July 12, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")