Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New construction crisis threatens due to 'unworkable' mega law
NRC.nl
April 23, 2021 12:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 767 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan, Rik Rutten
Highlight: The new Environmental Act is so complicated that major construction projects are at risk, the major cities warn.
Body


Building, a lot of building: this is what parties from left to right want to tackle the housing shortage. In recent years, the housing shortage has only increased, and the nitrogen crisis caused additional delays. Major plans to quickly build more houses should change that. But that ambition is in danger of becoming entangled in a tangle of new spatial planning legislation.
The new Environmental Act, which combines many existing rules, threatens to become so complicated that large construction projects are jeopardized. The large cities, which must make an important contribution to a solution to the housing crisis in the coming years, are particularly concerned about this. This is evident from internal documents in the hands of NRC.
During a test, the implementation of the law turned out to be "so substandard that the most minimal requirements are not met," the municipality of Amsterdam writes, for example, in an internal memo, "which endangers the realization of housing construction projects and other area developments." Other documents, from the Ministry of the Interior, show that the six largest cities have all expressed fear in a joint consultation that their construction plans will soon encounter major problems.
Also read:
Digitization
The Environmental Act, which is to come into effect in eight months, was devised to make spatial planning simpler. There are fewer strict rules, procedures are digitalized and there are more opportunities for citizens and companies to arrange permits themselves, from a garden shed to a neighborhood festival to the construction of a residential area. Thousands of articles of law and ministerial regulations have been combined in the new law. To make this possible, local rules and zoning plans will soon be linked to a gigantic national digital database. And that's where things go wrong.
The municipalities were already able to test run the new systems. That has fueled their concerns. The government works with various software suppliers, but the IT systems they built are not always properly coordinated or are not accessible to everyone. The database that is supposed to support everything has also become a fragmentary repository of information, as stated in consultation documents between municipalities and the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
For example, municipal architectural offices have difficulty accessing national systems. Once the joint zoning plans of metropolitan areas have been submitted, they can hardly be changed. And if they are resubmitted, there is a risk that they will no longer be legally valid. In a trial in Amsterdam, it was not even possible to complete simple jobs successfully, such as arranging a permit to fell a tree or install solar panels on a monumental building. A spokesperson confirms that the "bottlenecks identified during testing are not only relevant for Amsterdam", but also for other municipalities where a lot of construction needs to be done.
The law is therefore surrounded by so many uncertainties that it is feared that no zoning plan will soon be possible for large-scale housing construction. Jan Struiksma, emeritus professor of public administration at the VU, calls the fear that large-scale housing construction will come to a standstill "real". “The need to build homes is great, which does not allow this kind of experimentation at all.”
The concerns are known to the Ministry of the Interior, but according to those involved, Minister Kajsa Ollongren (D66) is afraid of losing the political momentum for her law. The House of Representatives has already agreed, the Senate almost. In the event of new setbacks, the final decision could probably only be taken by the next cabinet. A decision on implementation should have been made this week, but that has been postponed for the time being.
read
Major construction task
The expected chaos is bad news for the major construction task facing the Netherlands. The demand for housing is much greater than the supply – and is only growing. More than 300,000 households are looking for a suitable home, but cannot find it. Almost all political parties want to build much more and faster in the next ten years, often as much as 100,000 homes per year, considerably more than the approximately 70,000 houses built in recent years.
Previously, the issuance of building permits was delayed due to the nitrogen crisis. This started when the Council of State put an end to the flexible way in which the government allowed extra nitrogen emissions. As a result, thousands of construction projects came to a standstill.

Load Date: April 23, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")