Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No Headline In Original
NRC
January 31, 2022 Monday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 17
Length: 686 words
Byline: Ameling Algra

Pim de Vroomen

Wim Everwijn

Yfke Osinga
Body


QR pass
No unnecessary rules
We live in a free country, so get rid of the QR pass. This is briefly stated by Christiaan Weijts in his column Deceptive optimism (28/1). He applies an absolute and dogmatic principle of freedom. The fact that the freedom to extend your arm ends right in front of someone else's nose does not occur in his concept. Denmark, England, Ireland and Spain realize that they are a free country, he says. They will (possibly) abolish the corona pass. The vaccination rate in those countries is higher than in the Netherlands. A good example of a paradox: if everyone with common sense adheres to the rules, those rules are unnecessary. I suspect that the medical costs for infected unvaccinated people far exceed the costs of developing that pass. Not to mention the suffering for the people whose necessary operations have been postponed again, or who have not dared to go outside for almost two years because of their immune system. There are no half measures in such extreme emergencies. Vaccination obligation would be appropriate, instead of a half-hearted QR code policy. But with the Christian Union in the cabinet, that is not possible.
Ameling Algra
The Hague
Nitrogen
Finally nature again
Under the inspiring leadership of his cabinets, Rutte I's initial passion for accounting has degenerated into a mechanism of self-destruction in about ten years. Now even our provinces are actively looking for evasion of the nitrogen measures (Nature suffers from nitrogen trade, 28/1). Lobbies find the new Environmental Act difficult: imagine if all noise pollution were really measured and added up, or that the same would happen with the scandalous air pollution that causes more death and destruction than smoking. In a little while, Rutte will not only be the longest-serving Prime Minister of the Netherlands, but also the last: the Netherlands no longer exists, eaten away by commercial municipalities, provinces, utilities, health care, a voracious industry that has never cleaned up its own mess. Just a few more years and nature will take control again. There will be no more people. Suffocated, drowned or left. The Netherlands will become the most beautiful landscape park in Europe. Finally, there is room for the wolves. Fortunately, the real one.
Pim de Vroomen
To lead
Soumaya
Deradicalized
The fact that Soumaya deradicalized Sahla (Faction chairman: VVD 'feels discomfort' about advisor Salah, 24/1) is in principle still justified. But why this change with an ambitious function at the heart of democracy? She could also have become a teacher, but she sought and got in touch with a man with a lot of influence in the VVD and beyond. What apparently has not surprised anyone is that Soumaya was first an average Muslim woman in her young life, then became radicalized and deradicalized again within a few years. If you can switch so easily, radicalization is never far away.
Wim Everwijn
Capelle aan den IJssel
Books
Nothing wrong with Riley
In the article about the best-selling books (In 2021: many books sold, but few literary novels, 28/1) the books by Lucinda Riley and Santa Montefiore, among others, are spoken rather condescendingly. The latter is even described as a writer of "embellished bouquet series books". According to the CPNB, the development towards lower sales of literary books is worrying. Both the CPNB and the article treat the superiority of the literary book as an objective truth. It is me here. disagree. What is most important is that more books have been sold than in previous years. Even if the list were dominated by real bouquet series books, it would remain a good development if people bought more books. What exactly is wrong with Lucinda Riley or Santa Montefiore? What makes their books apparently less valuable than literary fiction? We can rightly be concerned about the few Dutch titles on the list, but every genre must remain equal.
Yfke Osinga
Amersfoort
Letters 31/1/2022
If you switch easily, radicalization is never far away
Link to PDF

Notes

The Hague; To lead; Capelle aan den IJssel; Amersfoort

Load Date: January 30, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")