Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No Headline In Original
NRC.NEXT
January 14, 2017
NN Saturday


Copyright 2017 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: The Hague; Page 4
Length: 685 words
Body


Lodewijk Asscher (Social Affairs, PvdA)
Highlight The agreement on cleaners. They returned to permanent employment with the central government.
Low point The MH17 disaster. The day the coffins returned. There I was at Eindhoven airport as Deputy Prime Minister. It was so sad. All those relatives.
Laughed out loud With Jeanine Hennis in Northern Iraq. I had yellow earplugs against the noise of the plane. The next day I read the responses to her: Look, the PvdA is coming to listen.
Jeanine Hennis (Defense, VVD)
Highlight The arrival of the JSF. After twelve years of political debate, the Netherlands has finally been introduced to this new fighter aircraft.
Laughed loudly at the arrival in Erbil, Northern Iraq, with Lodewijk Asscher in white sneakers and jeans. We were told that there would not be a formal reception until the next day. Nothing could be further from the truth. Asscher did not take off his suit and tie afterward. Not even in the mud with the troops.
Bert Koenders (Foreign Affairs, PvdA)
Highlight After an intensive campaign, the world has awarded the Netherlands a seat on the UN Security Council. You should see that as a compliment.
Low point The war in Syria. That's where everything we don't want comes together, despite our best efforts. Resulting in great human suffering, and a flow of migration towards Europe that tests our solidarity.
Edith Schippers (Public Health, VVD)
Highlight The day that Rutte concluded the refugee deal with Turkey. I didn't think that would work because I know how tough the European Union is.
Low point It was very difficult for me every time we lost a colleague from the cabinet. Because I have known Weekers, Teeven and Opstelten well for a long time, even from the time I was in the House of Representatives, their departure affected me even more.
Jetta Klijnsma (Social Affairs, PvdA)
Highlight My visit to De Regenboog primary school in The Hague. I could tell you that we had released 100 million to combat child poverty.
Low point When we found in 2016 that municipalities had only created 115 sheltered workplaces (for disabled people who cannot work in normal companies, ed.). There should have been 1,600 by then.
Laughed out loud With Henk Kamp. He thinks I'm so idealistic: there's Jetta again who always wants to keep helping people.
Sander Dekker (Education, VVD)
Highlight I find it a pleasure every year to award the designation of excellent schools to teachers and school leaders who are doing exceptionally well.
Low point Tim Ribberink's suicide at the end of 2012. He was bullied so much at school that he decided to take his own life. I talked to his parents at the kitchen table. That conversation opened my eyes to the impact bullying has.
Laughed hard Jeroen Dijsselbloem does an excellent imitation of John Cleese.
Jet Bussemaker (Education, PvdA)
Highlight The reform of the loan system. What was nice: the student unions were disappointed, but still came with us to Nieuwspoort to drink away their sorrows.
All time low
 Not a low point, but a serious signal was the report by journalist Margalith Kleijwegt about how teachers deal with attacks and Islamic terrorism. It turned out that teachers and students live past each other and no longer understand each other.
Melanie Schultz (Traffic, VVD)
Highlight The moment the Environmental Act was adopted in the House of Representatives, one of the largest legislative operations of the past century.
Low point The departure of State Secretary Wilma Mansveld. I still think it shouldn't have happened.
Laughed out loud I'm very bad at remembering anecdotes so they don't come up that quickly.
Sharon Dijksma (Infrastructure, PvdA)
Highlight The Paris Climate Agreement and the deal on stricter air quality requirements.
Low point The bird flu crisis in 2014, terrible for all those farmers with their companies and families.
Laughed out loud at a deal about the export of our onions to Indonesia. It was in the news as: the Dutch onion can be used in Indonesian nasi again.

Load Date: January 13, 2017


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")