Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental law remains a problem: SMEs are at a loss in 'simple' digital counter
De Telegraaf.nl
February 1, 2022 Tuesday 9:11 AM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DFT; TO UNDERTAKE; DFT; FRONTPAGE; INTERIOR; DFT/NEWS
Length: 568 words
Byline: Edwin Timmer
Dateline: AMSTERDAM
Body


A pilot for the MB to dabble with a new digital counter of the Environmental Act has gone so badly that business clubs are demanding a postponement of the new legislation. “It is incomplete and very SME-unfriendly. In this way, entrepreneurs lose track," warns chairman Fried Kaanen of the Royal Metal Union after a test period.
The business umbrella organizations Bovag, Vereniging ION, NRK and NBOV join the resistance to its entry into force on July 1. The Environmental Act is intended to make it easier for citizens and entrepreneurs to apply for permits relating to space, water, the environment and infrastructure. However, due to its complexity, its entry into force has already been postponed several times.
The Environmental Act brings together thirty laws and hundreds of decisions and regulations. “The intention to make it clearer and simpler for companies and citizens is a courteous effort,” Kaanen emphasizes. “But then it must be manageable.” And that is far from the case with this Digital System Environmental Act (DSO), says the Metaalunie, which was one of the few trade associations that was able to participate in a pilot.
For example, employees of the Metaalunie tried to find out which environmental regulations the entrepreneur must comply with for a simple agricultural mechanization company via the DSO counter. Kaanen: “We came across 220 pages full of environmental requirements, some of which contained links to other pages. And we hadn't even entered all the work yet. In this way, SMEs will no longer be able to see the forest for the trees. That will be chaos.”
Simplicity
According to the SME umbrella organisations, a good system depends on whether the digital counter is easy to operate. Kaanen: “If this does not improve, you will soon need an advisor to get through the DSO properly. This is absolutely inconsistent with the motto of the Environmental Act: 'Simple, better'.”
The Bovag, the umbrella organization for car companies, states in a response that it is "not happy" with the experiences that the Metaalunie has shared. “This may not be a problem for large companies with a separate legal department, but of course it is for SMEs,” says spokesperson Paul de Waal. “They cannot afford expensive consultants to comply with this 'simplified' legislation.”
The Bovag would therefore prefer a postponement of one year. “ICT is always complicated. We should only introduce this system once it has been tested by entrepreneurs themselves. Better choose July 1, 2023. Care for speed.”
The digital counter of the Environmental Act is not only there for applying for permits. Within DSO you will soon also be able to find out what the general and fire safety requirements are for a specific type of company at a specific location. The developments and plans in the vicinity of a business location should also be visible at a glance.
Residential construction
The criticism is now broader than SMEs. There are also concerns among a number of provinces and municipalities. They previously stated in this newspaper that they feared that an accumulation of rules would be paralyzing for housing construction.
Last week, the Ministry of the Interior held consultations with, among others, the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) and the Interprovincial Consultation. Minister De Jonge (BZK) does not like to see the introduction postponed again, as his predecessors had to decide time and time again.

Graphic

 
Image, Photo for illustration., Getty Images

Load Date: February 1, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")