Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environment and transport XII. Space and mobility
NRC Handelsblad
November 5, 2012 Monday


Copyright 2012 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Special
Length: 1563 words
Body


Infrastructure and accessibility are of decisive importance for our economy. Mobility has also grown in recent years, despite the economic crisis. We work to improve accessibility and flow in two ways. By investing, especially in tackling traffic jam bottlenecks and the construction of missing links in main connections. And by making better use of the existing infrastructure - road, rail and water.
Public transport must be reliable, accessible and efficient. Rail and other forms of public transport must be better connected. Safety on the railways must improve further. The government is promoting the development of the main ports of Schiphol and Rotterdam because of their great importance to the Dutch economy. They are given room to grow, with continued attention to a good living environment.
  80 percent of the remaining investment space in the Infrastructure Fund and Delta Fund until 2028 can be earmarked for new projects in the coming cabinet period.
  We carry out projects with a favorable social benefit/cost ratio according to plan. This applies, among other things, to the construction of the Blankenburg tunnel. Bottlenecks in the connecting road network are tackled simultaneously. The decision-making process on the widening of the Utrecht Ring Road (2 x 7 lanes) is being completed. (1)
  There will be no kilometer charge. (2) Instead, we will continue the Better Use program, which contributes to reducing traffic jams.
  To make optimal use of the available resources and to promote entrepreneurship and innovation, we focus on public-private partnerships in the construction of infrastructure.
  The Eurovignette will be further focused on cleaner trucks. Any estimated additional revenues will be made available for investments in road infrastructure.
  The exemption from motor vehicle tax for vintage cars will be abolished for environmental reasons.
  From 2016 onwards, the European Rail Safety System (ERTMS) will be introduced in phases using existing budgets. An improvement program will be introduced to reduce the number of level crossing incidents.
  In the context of the long-term railway agenda to be drawn up, we analyze the organization and order on the railway. Adjustments may be made based on the results.
  The private award to the NS of transport on the main rail network for the period 2015-2024 is being completed.
  Obstacles to cross-border train traffic are removed where possible.
  We are exploring the possibilities for further decentralization, but maintaining the main rail network. (3)
  Regional airports are allowed to develop further, also to support Schiphol's growth.
  We identify obstacles to sustainable inland shipping that can contribute to the development of the core functions of the port of Rotterdam and remove them where possible.
  Obstacles to freight transport are removed by promoting fast and proper customs clearance.
In spatial planning, the government opts for economic growth that does not harm ecology and environmental quality.
  The Netherlands wants to remain internationally competitive and investments must yield maximum returns. That is why the economic areas around the mainports, brainports and greenports are given priority.
  Decision-making on spatial projects must be simpler and faster, which is why we are further streamlining spatial legislation and regulations. In 2013, we will present an environmental law bill to replace, among other things, the Spatial Planning Act and the Water Act.
  There will be a database for spatial data, which will make information easier to access.
  The shrinkage problem is receiving attention from various ministries. In education, all forms of collaboration must be possible when shrinkage makes this necessary. Homes will have to be adapted in view of the population composition and sometimes demolition is necessary. Facilities will have to be bundled where possible. The lead for this lies with the local government. Regions that have to deal with this must be given space through tailor-made regulations.
In nature policy, the central government is responsible for the frameworks and ambitions. The provinces are responsible for completing and implementing the policy, as agreed in the Nature Agreement.
  The ecological main structure is being implemented, including the connecting zones, but we are taking more time. That is why we make agreements with provinces and nature management organizations about priorities, timetable and the use of resources. (4) We will include the effects of planning claims in an evaluation in 2016.
  Managing and protecting existing nature reserves is given priority. The 200 million earmarked for nature in the 2013 budget agreement is available for this purpose via the Provincial Fund.
  The Nature Conservation Act that is under discussion will be amended. Where possible, the different levels of protection are harmonized and, where relevant, brought into line with the Birds and Habitats Directives and other relevant regulations. In this way, the law will contribute to biodiversity in the Netherlands.
  To enable greater private involvement, we are reviewing the positioning of Staatsbosbeheer. All nature management organizations must generate as much of their own resources as possible.
  Within nature policy, we strive for synergy with other social interests such as water safety, recreation, entrepreneurship, health, energy and climate.
  All alternatives for nature compensation around the deepening of the Western Scheldt have been carefully weighed in terms of costs and effects. On this basis, we decide to undertake the complete depoldering of the Hedwigepolder as soon as possible. (5)
The Netherlands lives with water. Care for water management and water quality will therefore always remain an essential government task. The Netherlands has unique knowledge and expertise in the field of water management and water quality and earns a lot of money from it. We can also use this knowledge to make the water chain more sustainable, thereby improving the living environment.
  The government limits itself to setting standards and supervision of the primary flood defenses, the province to the secondary defenses and its role as area director.
  Water and nature issues are becoming increasingly intertwined. Rijkswaterstaat, the rural area service and the water boards are instructed to come up with proposals that increase efficiency in management and maintenance.
  Maintaining the existing infrastructure for water safety is a priority in water policy. The various tasks will be combined optimally and innovatively in a water safety program.
  Expenditure on water safety and freshwater supply is financed from the Delta Fund. This fund will be split from the Infrastructure Fund with effect from 2014.
  The implementation of the Room for the River and Maaswerken programs will continue.
  The government is committed to the export of products, knowledge and skills from the water sector.
Animal welfare is important and is widely felt by the population. Much has improved in recent years and we are continuing that trend.
  In the coming years, animal welfare will be further anchored in intensive livestock farming. The starting point is the advice of the Van Doorn committee.
  We support cooperation between organizations within the food chain in the areas of animal protection, consumer interests, agriculture and food trade.
  We test planning rules for the construction of very large stables and rules for the use of antibiotics for animals for public health aspects and tighten them if necessary.
  The regular police tackle neglect and abuse of animals harshly. Heavy penalties and bans on keeping animals support this policy.
  There will be a ban on the use of wild animals in circuses. (6)
Her most important task is on the track. There is a lot going on there: dissatisfaction about winter weather problems, the future of NS and ProRail, decentralization, a new safety system. A critical report from the railway investigation committee will also be discussed this autumn. Schultz's advantage: she knows the material after two years in this post.
Melanie Schultz van Haegen (VVD), Minister of Space and Mobility
a.
Thanks to the ERTMS safety system, trains can run faster (up to 200 kilometers per hour) and closer together. This means that the capacity of the rail network is better utilized. The parliamentary rail investigation committee noted at the beginning of this year that ERTMS is stable and cheaper than always thought.
b.
A complicated formulation, but this is about the future of NS and rail manager ProRail. There are increasingly calls within and outside politics to transfer ProRail to the government or Rijkswaterstaat. NS and ProRail have been under fire for years, including when the winter weather again caused problems.
c.
A break with the policy of the previous cabinet, which had agreed to stop the purchase of land for the ecological main structure (EHS). The EHS is a network of connected nature reserves, some of which have already been realized. The remaining parts still have to be purchased or developed into nature reserves.

Graphic

 
 schultzN

Load Date: November 5, 2012


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")