Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental law is being postponed again; Companies lose track in 'simple' digital counter
The Telegraph
February 2, 2022 Wednesday
The Netherlands


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: FINANCIAL; Page 23
Length: 463 words
Byline: Valentine Bartels
Body


Companies lose track in 'simple' digital counter
by Valentijn Bartels and Edwin Timmer
AMSTERDAM - SME sector organizations are happy with the postponement of the new Environmental Act until after July 1 this summer. Minister De Jonge (Spatial Planning) announced on Tuesday that the entry into force will not take place until October 1 or even early 2023. From a pilot to experiment with the new digital counter, the Royal Metal Union concluded that the monster project is still far from being in order for entrepreneurs.
This is the umpteenth time that the new Environmental Act has been postponed. And it is once again IT problems that throw a spanner in the works. Minister De Jonge has decided on the new postponement after intensive consultation with provinces and municipalities. He would rather wait to introduce the law "in a responsible manner".
The Environmental Act must help citizens and companies obtain permits quickly and easily. To this end, the law combines dozens of laws and hundreds of decisions and regulations. For example, it should soon be easier to start construction projects.
"The intention to make it clearer and simpler for companies and citizens is a courteous endeavor," emphasizes chairman Fried Kaanen of the Metaalunie. "But it must be manageable." And according to him, this is far from being the case with the new digital counter, the Digital System for the Environment Act (DSO), as a pilot has shown.
The business umbrella organizations Bovag, Vereniging ION, NRK and NBOV have also spoken out against its entry into force on July 1. Kaanen: "We are happy with the postponement, but given our experiences with the pilot, we do not believe that a three-month postponement will be sufficient. Then at least choose January 1, 2023. We will do it well, or not at all."
One of the problems with the current digital counter is that entrepreneurs can completely lose track, warns the Metaalunie. For example, the umbrella organization tried to find out which environmental regulations the entrepreneur should comply with for a simple agricultural mechanization company. Kaanen: "We came across 220 pages full of environmental requirements, some of which contained links to other pages. And we hadn't even entered all the work."
The Bovag, the umbrella organization for car companies, was also not happy with the results. The organization wants to prevent entrepreneurs from needing an advisor to get through the DSO. "That may not be a problem for large companies with a separate legal department, but of course it is for SMEs," says spokesperson Paul de Waal. "They cannot afford expensive consultants to comply with this 'simplified' legislation. " That would be at odds with the promised simplification.
'Advisor needed to get through this'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 1, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")