Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Opposition outraged by forced asylum reception in Tubbergen: 'Unheard of decision'; VVD by the pump, anger in supporters
De Telegraaf.nl
August 17, 2022 Wednesday 12:31 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 703 words
Byline: our parliamentary editorial staff
Dateline: The Hague
Body


MPs from the opposition are outraged by the 'unheard of decision' by VVD State Secretary Eric van der Burg (Asylum) and CDA Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing). They are pushing through the arrival of an asylum reception location in Tubbergen in Twente from The Hague and overruling the municipality (council). “This will only intensify resistance,” says JA21 party leader Joost Eerdmans. VVD faction leader Sophie Hermans and VVD MP Ruben Brekelmans accept the government's intervention, which leads to anger among their own supporters.
On Tuesday evening, Van der Burg and De Jonge announced that they are pushing the municipality of Tubbergen aside by imposing an additional asylum location on the village of Albergen through the environmental law. The municipality previously opposed the arrival of the asylum seekers. It is the first time that this heavy drug has been used.
“This is truly an unprecedented decision, very far-reaching and with an enormous precedent,” says JA21 faction leader Joost Eerdmans. “Local support is no longer sought, but aimed for a conscious confrontation. And in the meantime, the influx continues, the real problem.”
PVV leader Wilders mentions the 'end of democracy' and talks about 'fortune seekers'. “This cabinet behaves like a totalitarian occupier that has no regard for local democracy.” SPG MP Roelof Bisschop calls the government's approach 'mopping with the tap open'. “Without inflow-restricting measures, without an effective deportation policy, without a robust approach to nuisance creators…”
Immediately after the decision, Twente VVD members already showed their anger about the decision. The 'classical liberal' wing is also critical. “Thorbecke's house is on fire, set on fire by our own VVD.” Leon van Noort and Jan Veerenhuis hold their own party to previous 'tough words' about an asylum stop, they write. They criticize the mandatory ability to appoint municipalities for additional care. They also want the parliamentary faction to actually record matters with motions or an initiative bill. “And if that coercive law is introduced, it will immediately be thrown into the trash bin and, above all, require that the influx be limited, supplemented with an increase in deportations.”
'Not a structural solution'
However, VVD faction leader Sophie Hermans says that the House of Representatives faction has run out of steam. “It's terrible that we are in this situation,” she says. “This is also not a structural solution. The point is: what's the alternative? That is that people are sleeping outside, you have to make that decision.” Previously harsh language from her group - MP Ruben Brekelmans suggested an asylum stop and border controls - she does not say. She does expect 'action' from the cabinet for a 'structural solution'.
Hermans says that she 'understands perfectly well that people are shocked' because people 'were informed quite last-minute'. “I also find that annoying, because this means something for a place like Tubbergen, when something like this happens.”
Brekelmans is also not going to block the decision. In a written response he reports: “The only structural solutions for the current asylum crisis are limiting the influx, accelerating the flow of status holders, and increasing the outflow of those who have exhausted all legal remedies. I find it undesirable that the government should take these types of emergency measures to prevent hundreds of asylum seekers from wandering around on the streets. It was to be expected that this would cause unrest in the community. This further affects support for asylum reception.”
Heavy decision
Coalition party D66 supports the intervention. “It is a tough decision, but it has to be done to prevent people from not having a roof over their heads,” says Anne-Marijke Podt. CDA MP Evert Jan Slootweg speaks about 'solidarity' and wants a 'fair distribution between all municipalities'. Slootweg: “As far as the CDA is concerned, this is initially done in close consultation with the municipality and always with an eye for the local situation. The fact that this step is being taken towards Tubbergen raises questions for me because I understand that the municipality has helped to find other solutions that better suit that local context.”

Graphic

 
Image, On Tuesday evening, Van der Burg and De Jonge announced that they are pushing the municipality of Tubbergen aside by providing the village of Albergen with an additional asylum location via the environmental law., ANP

Load Date: August 18, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")