Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Calling boomers: give your vote away
De Volkskrant.nl
March 9, 2023 Thursday 03:05 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 647 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


 The readers' letters, about why youth should be given priority in elections, about how the male brain leads to sexually transgressive behavior, about dangerously fast e-bikes and the division of paid and unpaid work between men and women.
Dear fellow boomers: how many of us enjoyed it. Year after year we got better. We started with a holiday on the Veluwe or the Scheveningen beach and soon traveled all over the world. We live healthier and grow older.
Never has a generation had it as good as ours. At the same time, we have made a mess of things and it now appears that we are living far beyond our means. Taking a step back would be very justified, but unfortunately it is difficult to achieve. The current political power relations create powerlessness. The weight we carry in elections is inversely proportional to the time we have left to live.
There's something unfair about that. Hence my call to no longer vote in elections yourself, but to give your vote to your children on the condition that they use it. After all, they will experience the consequences of our choices much more.

Man's brain
Letter writer Tielke Engels wants to know what goes on in the brains of men who are guilty of sexually transgressive behavior. I think the answer has already been succinctly given by the American comedian Robin Williams: '.' (God gave men both a penis and a brain, but unfortunately not enough blood for both to work at the same time.)

First room
The article 'The Senate must stop playing the House of Representatives' suggests that we are busy doing something we should not be doing. It does not mention that we are currently mainly busy with our constitutional task: reconsidering bills.
These weeks we are doing this intensively with, among other things, the Environmental Act (which affects all municipalities and provinces), the Pension Act (which affects almost all Dutch people) and the corrective referendum (which is requested by a majority of the population and a state commission). No game, just our job. It's just a knowledge.

Helmet requirement
We would like to endorse Sander Schimmelpenninck's column. In this he explains why cycling is good and riding a scooter or moped is not. In addition, we would like to warn about the health effects of riding a 'fat bike' and other so-called e-bikes that are operated with a button or a 'throttle'.
The riders are getting younger and the speed is often well above 25 km/h. The danger to others and themselves therefore increases unnoticed. Moreover, almost all of them ride without helmets. It is recommended that these 'e-bikes' be regarded as mopeds in the regulations: helmets are therefore mandatory. A helmet is also recommended for regular e-bikes and bicycles, because the increasing number of bicycle accidents with serious brain injuries is of great concern to us.

Peasant protest
The government advises against the motion to ban the use of tractors during demonstrations. The motion was submitted by the Party for the Animals, arguing that the police believe that it would otherwise be impossible to properly enforce the law. The minister denies that police position, stating that several demonstrators were prosecuted after the previous protests.
Tractors do not serve the right to demonstrate in any respect. Using tractors is intimidating. Possibly so intimidating that the Minister of the Interior does not dare to support the motion. I'm curious which political parties do have that courage when voting.

(Un)paid work
What a missed opportunity that Minister Karien van Gennip (SZW) calls on employers to ask women to work more paid hours. Much better would be a call for men to work more unpaid work in caring for children, parents and the household. Because that is where the problem lies.

Load Date: March 14, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")