Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Call to reduce growth of 'distribution boxes'
NRC Handelsblad
October 29, 2019 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: ECONOMY; Page 5
Length: 718 words
Byline: Milo van Bokkum
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
           Landscape
Stricter requirements must be imposed on the proliferation of large distribution centers, a group of leading consultants has concluded.
COMPLETE TEXT:
          Only allow new distribution centers on existing industrial estates, and very exceptionally on land that is still 'green' - and then only in special 'clusters' of industrial buildings.
If the cabinet adopts the advice it receives this Tuesday from the Board of Government Advisors, this will have a major impact on the Dutch landscape and the logistics sector. And according to this advisory body for spatial planning, to which the Chief Government Architect also belongs, that is exactly what is needed to tackle the 'dumbing down' of the Netherlands.
Due to the growth of e-commerce and the favorable location of the Netherlands for transit to the rest of Europe, the number of large logistics buildings has increased significantly in recent years. Until 2016, the average distribution center was 7,000 square meters, but now it is almost 10,000 square meters - with peaks of more than 50,000. In 2019, almost two million square meters of logistics real estate were built. Demand is expected to remain high in the coming years.
The 'box growth' has already led to a debate, especially in the logistically strong south. The trend is already clearly visible in the areas around Tilburg, Venlo, Nijmegen and Roosendaal. Supporters emphasize the jobs that all these new buildings create.
Critics - including landscape architects, residents and opposition parties in municipal councils - mainly talk about gray, impersonal blocks of blocks that are simply flattened down and ruin the view. Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs, D66) also recently wrote to the House of Representatives that the "proliferation of distribution centers" is undesirable.
At the beginning of this year, the Board of Government Advisors decided to conduct research into 'cover-up' and issue advice on that basis. It now concludes that there is "little counter-pressure" in the construction of large industrial halls, which means that, for example, municipalities and project developers are too easy to build 'in the pasture'. They do not take "landscape values" - recreation, views, biodiversity - too seriously. . The council realizes that this concept may be somewhat vague, but that is no reason not to do anything: "These values ​​may not represent an easily quantifiable economic value, but they do contribute largely to our social prosperity."
Large clusters
According to the council, a higher level of government, such as the province or the national government, must decide where logistics real estate can still be built in the Netherlands. This includes existing large clusters such as Venlo or Tilburg, or a limited number of new ones. This means that its influence on the landscape is limited to a few areas.
The council points to greenhouses with their excessive light production as an example: the Netherlands also has enormous areas of this, but in a limited number of regions. Berno Strootman, member of the council: "If you ask people whether the Netherlands is moving, no one thinks so."
By prohibiting the construction of distribution centers on 'green' land outside clusters, project developers are encouraged to redevelop existing, smaller-scale industrial areas. According to the council, these are often underused and outdated, but restructuring is expensive. "You could consider a fund for this," says Strootman. "At cluster locations, where the money is earned, you can skim a few percent off the land price."
Is implementation of the advice feasible? The final chapter of the report focuses specifically on integrating the proposals into the new Environmental Act. This should come into effect in 2021. In answering parliamentary questions, responsible minister Ollongren seemed to anticipate the council's advice by mentioning more guidance from the government as an option. But aren't the proposed measures too ambitious? Strootman: "We try to convince governments that they really need to deal with logistics real estate in a different way. You can ask the question: what will be gained if we build it? But you can also say: what does it cost us?"
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
A large distribution center in Tilburg. The city is one of the most important logistics centers in the country.
Photo Merlin Daleman
Industrial halls are getting bigger and bigger

Load Date: October 29, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")