Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Kempering parking garage in the Bijlmer will be demolished, but will remain in existence to some extent
De Volkskrant.nl
March 30, 2020 Monday 03:48 PM GMT


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 901 words
Byline: Kirsten Hannema
Body


  By retaining elements from the building and returning the silhouette to the city, a 'mental monument' is created.
What makes a building monument-worthy, and who is in charge of that? The status and future of Kempering, the last original parking garage in Amsterdam's Bijlmer, has been discussed for seven years. The bullet is through the church, or rather: the bullet goes into the building, which was handed over to the demolition contractor on March 16.
But that does not mean the end of Kempering, named after the associated flat. The municipality has asked heritage organization Imagine IC to draw up a plan together with residents and involved citizens to allow the building to live on as a 'mental monument'.
Precious memories
The garage, which has been empty and dilapidated for years, is seen by some as a symbol of the failure of the Bijlmermeer. Built in the late 1960s as an urban planning utopia, the neighborhood was best known for the crime and drug trade that flourished around the garages. But there are also architecture experts who believe that this authentic part of Bijlmer should be preserved. And there are residents with fond memories of the concrete building, which was also used as an athletics track and church and where cultural events such as the Garage festival have taken place in recent years.
From that moment on, Imagine IC became involved in Kempering. The organization was founded in 1999 when a large-scale urban renewal operation began in the Bijlmer, during which the residents were little heard. Under the motto 'heritage democracy', Imagine IC wants to change that. 'Heritage tells who we are together, and who we want to become. Everyone has a voice in this,” it says on their website. Their home on Bijlmerplein is called 'an open floor for negotiation about the composition of the collective memory of Amsterdam'.
'Negotiation method'
Kempering shows how different feelings people have about buildings and places. Imagine IC talks about emotion networks and, together with the Reinwardt Academy (higher professional education in the field of cultural heritage), developed a 'negotiation method' of the same name. They shape this, among other things, in the seminar series City Feeling, in which previous cases were discussed such as the monument to the history of slavery, the monument to the Bijlmer air disaster and therefore also Kempering. Writer Murat Isik was invited to the garage to read from his book Be Invisible, in which the garage figures. International experts gave lectures on how citizens can contribute to heritage development and spoke with the district's administrators.
The district previously called on creative developers to submit plans for the (temporary) use of the empty building. For example, entrepreneur Jeannette Seret and architect Peter Dautzenberg came up with the idea for a multifunctional neighborhood complex: Garage4all. According to district manager Dirk de Jager, none of the plans was financially feasible, nor was the idea of ​​preserving the building by giving it a place in the Bijlmer Museum or the open-air museum in Arnhem.
The only option left was to abort. There still appear to be opportunities for heritage development: 'directed' demolition. In November 2019, Imagine IC organized a public inspection in which 32 interested parties participated. During a tour of the building, they wrote down what they thought should be preserved. This resulted in a list of items, including the sign of the Ghanaian church, a number of graffiti drawings and dictionaries of the asylum seekers who moved into the building last year.
Together with Amsterdam museums and the City Archives, we looked at who would take care of the nominated objects. Street Art Museum Amsterdam will make a 3D recording of the building, allowing you to walk through the garage with VR glasses. A concrete column with hearts will be retained, 'as a symbol of the rock-solid faith in the neighborhood, linked to the struggle waged by residents to preserve the garage'. A number of stories will be documented, such as that of Amellah, who has been living in the building as a homeless person for three years. Architect Dautzenberg proposed cutting out sections of wall and using them to build a pavilion nearby, in which the characteristic smell of urine and diesel would return. That turned out to be a bridge too far.
In the case of new construction, the municipality will give instructions to reuse building parts or materials and to restore the contours of the building. The silhouette, the preserved objects and the stories previously recorded for an exhibition together form the mental monument.
It is an idea that fits in with the experimental approach to heritage that government architect Floris Alkemade advocates. At the beginning of this year, he announced that he wants to 'return' the old TBS clinic in Rekken to nature by turning the building into a ruin. The Kempering approach is also in line with the government's aim to encourage participation, as laid down in the new Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2021. But if you look at it cynically, a mental monument is also a great way to demolish buildings to make way for lucrative new construction.
The evacuation of the garage, where around 90 asylum seekers are currently staying, has been postponed for the time being due to the corona crisis. The demolition contractor starts clearing out the office area.

Load Date: March 30, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")