Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Politics influences law enforcement more than we care to know
NRC.nl
October 6, 2022 3:59 PM GMT


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 761 words
Byline: Bob Hoogenboom
Highlight: The gas survey shows that law enforcement is driven by political interests. This happens more often and damages the rule of law, writes Bob Hoogenboom.
Body


When Inspector General Harry van der Meijden of the State Supervision of Mines came to talk to Minister Kamp in 2016 about his advice to significantly reduce gas extraction, Next to the minister is the director of NAM and its shareholders, the directors of Shell and ExxonMobil. Which is unusual in the consultation between the minister and the supervisor. “It will be an uncomfortable meeting,” according to Van der Meijden. He stated before the parliamentary inquiry committee that NAM was "furious" about the advice.
 Bob Hoogenboom is professor of forensic studies at Nyenrode.
Afterwards, the three directors approach the independent supervisor. The director of NAM tells Van der Meijden that "he is only satisfied if production is zero." The inspector general responds that he is concerned with safety and not production figures.
Fusion
The situation evokes associations with the film The Godfather (1972): the hand that has people on strings. Power in The Godfather is not only brutal murderous violence but also a combination of intimidation, (network) corruption and the merging of political and economic interests. Actually more effective.
Van der Meijden is also affected by another hand: the Ministry of Economic Affairs. He describes this relationship as a “dormant war in which everything had to be fought.” The Dutch Safety Board previously pointed out the existence of "a gas building" in which, for decades, market parties determined with the ministry whether and how to discuss the risks in Groningen.
An independent supervisor is also discussed earlier in the article. In 2011, the Dutch Competition Authority (NMa) decided to impose a fine of 400 million euros on gas trader GasTerra for monopolistic behavior. Secret documents from the committee of inquiry show that officials advise Verhagen to have "a robust conversation" with the NMa. The chairman of the NMa and a senior official are also present. The fine is canceled the same day. The committee questions the interference with a decision by an independent supervisor. The minister cannot remember anything.
Intimidation
On July 5 of this year, Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning, CDA) will answer parliamentary questions in response to Domestic Government. This features civil servants who are internally critical of the Environmental Act and are confronted with "signals of non-professional escalation", "intimidation", the question of whether they can "shut their mouths" and the question "whether they are good at lying." ”. According to the minister, the gist is that there are signals of pressure on employees involved in the introduction of the Environmental Act, but "we are not aware of this." The Senate has asked a number of those officials for explanations.
According to the report, improper pressure is regularly exerted on civil servants, for example by councilors. “Many civil servants experience a hierarchical way of management, in which contradiction is not appreciated, to say the least.” It has previously been observed in the Maasstad. Civil servants are primarily loyal but also have a responsibility to contribute their professional voice (voice option). This benefits the quality of public administration. In theory that sounds great. In practice, the political influence of the executive power is increasing. This affects the foundations of the rule of law.
Sobering
The Van Aartsen Committee (2021) notes that the system of licensing, supervision and enforcement (VTH) is in poor condition. The 29 environmental services (environmental legislation) lack knowledge and perseverance. This leads to unnecessary environmental, health and economic damage. The committee paints a sobering picture in its advice. The services are often not 'independent' enough and allow themselves to be influenced by municipalities, provinces and companies. Role impurity and conflict of interest due to the lack of a clear separation of responsibilities.
Law enforcement is influenced more than we want and dare to accept by political and economic interests. We also see it these days in the half-hearted approach by the Netherlands to the Russian sanctions policy. Attention to this political economy of law enforcement is (still) mainly incidental and, in terms of social outrage, it loses out to more stereotypical forms of (drug-related) crime. How one-sided and naive is this?

Load Date: October 6, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")