Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Council of State reprimands government and parliament: think more often about the general interest
De Volkskrant.nl
April 11, 2019 Thursday 03:23 PM GMT


Copyright 2019 De Persgroep Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Length: 546 words
Byline: Frank Hendrickx and Remco Meijer
Body


  The government too often listens to the interests of the individual, while the general interest should take precedence. Government and parliament are increasingly entering into agreements with social groups, which are then laid down in law. This criticism was expressed by the Council of State in the 2018 annual report, which was published on Thursday. It calls on the government to make decisions itself more often.
A recent example is the Climate Agreement, which was preceded by the Energy Agreement in 2013. The legislation will follow after dozens of interest groups have concluded an agreement with the government. The Council of State finds this worrying: the law is 'used instrumentally to translate or legitimize political and social agreements'.
This weakens the role of the House of Representatives in particular. Voters elect representatives who do not then sit at the consultation tables where important decisions are made. The parliamentary factions of government parties in particular are then stuck: they no longer have room to change the exchange of interests. This puts the legitimacy of legislation and therefore the confidence of citizens in the democratic constitutional state to the test.
The annual report is the first to be published under the responsibility of the new Vice President Thom de Graaf (61). The former D66 politician succeeded former CDA minister Piet Hein Donner in October. De Graaf shows understanding that the legislator tries to organize support in advance in an increasingly complex society, but believes that elected representatives must be and remain closely involved with the standards set by a law.
In an interview with de Volkskrant, De Graaf says: 'Agreements indicate a main political direction. But agreements should never be the decisive argument for legislation. Because the decisive argument for legislation must lie in the law itself.'
Too many flexible laws
The Council of State also points to another phenomenon that causes concern. These are flexible laws that leave a lot of room for implementation: laws with open standards, such as framework legislation (for example the Environment Act) and experimental legislation (the Crisis and Recovery Act, which would be temporary but already has seventeen tranches). According to the Council of State, there is a risk that if a strong substantive standard is missing in the law, it will not provide sufficient guidance in practice. Then the board, and in the event of disputes the judge, takes over the work of the legislature.
The Council of State is an advisor to the government and parliament, and is also the highest administrative court. The advice department provided solicited and unsolicited advice 392 times in 2018. The administrative law department issued 13,481 rulings.
Despite rumors about a pre-arranged appointment, De Graaf says he simply applied for the position of vice-chairman. 'It is not fun for anyone involved in the appointment procedure when there are all kinds of stories and rumors about a fixed deal from the establishment. Not even for the candidate himself. I have no judgment on the procedure, but it is unpleasant when there is so much noise all the time. The House and Cabinet must see whether they want a different appointment procedure. I'm not about that.'

Load Date: April 18, 2019


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")