Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Council of State is struggling with a sharp increase in objections to construction plans
de Volkskrant
April 20, 2022 Wednesday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: First; Page 12
Length: 437 words
Byline: NIELS WATLO
Highlight: The Council of State is struggling with a sharp increase in objections to, among other things, the construction of wind farms and homes. Moreover, matters are becoming increasingly complex, while the council is already struggling with a staff shortage. Construction and energy projects are therefore delayed.
Body


The Council of State confirmed this after reporting from Trouw. In 2019, the highest administrative court in the Netherlands received around 1,400 objections about spatial projects, from housing to highway widening. A year later there were more than 1,800 objections, last year there were 2,300 objections. The council has committed itself to completing matters relating to major plans within a year, but is increasingly less likely to succeed in this.

A preliminary relief judge can halt a construction project while a lawsuit is pending. Even if construction does not come to a standstill, the uncertainty about the current case may lead to a wait-and-see attitude, says spokesperson Pieter-Bas Beekman. 'You can continue at your own risk, but the matter remains hanging over your head like a sword of Damocles. The brutal conclusion is that projects come to a standstill.'
Nitrogen rules
Not only are there more cases before the Environmental Chamber, matters are also becoming more complex. In recent years, citizens have substantiated their objections with a broader range of arguments, such as nitrogen regulations, says Beekman. This therefore creates more work for the lawyers of the Council of State.

Meanwhile, the council is struggling with a staff shortage. Approximately three hundred lawyers work at the administrative law department, and there are several dozen vacancies. Tightness on the labor market has made it more difficult to attract employees, says spokesperson Beekman. 'And during corona times it was more difficult to recruit. Normally we have to rely on internships and in-house days, for example, which was a problem. This may have made us less visible.'The cause of the increased number of objections is anyone's guess. It may be that a new environmental law must come into effect on January 1, 2023, according to Beekman. It takes municipalities and provinces time and effort to get to grips with new legislation. That is why they want to make as many decisions as possible before then, based on current legislation, is the idea. A wave of decisions also means a wave of objections. If this indeed plays a role, the number of objections could decrease again next year. Furthermore, a ruling by the Court of Justice in Luxembourg, the Pigs in Need ruling, has made it possible for more people to go to the Council since last year. of State on environmental issues. Previously, only 'stakeholders' could do this; people who immediately notice the consequences of a government decision. In some cases, other citizens can also come knocking, provided they have previously submitted an opinion - a response to a government plan before it is implemented.

View the original page: page 12

Graphic

 
A wind farm on the South Holland island of Goeree-Overflakkee.

Load Date: April 19, 2022


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")