Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Rutte II gives the opposition ammunition
NRC Handelsblad
September 17, 2014 Wednesday


Copyright 2014 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: In the news; Page 2
Length: 613 words
Byline: By our editors Tom-Jan Meeus and Thijs Niemantsverdriet
Body


Analysis
Million bill
Despite a favorable budget, the opposition has every opportunity to attack the cabinet. She demands a tax reform plan quickly.
The Hague. Lack of ambition: it became the buzz of Budget Day. Rutte II would sit back and present too little new policy.
Today it appears that the cabinet is bringing the 'constructive' and the 'normal' opposition back together. They are primarily aimed at the decision of VVD and PvdA to postpone the announced reform of the tax system.
The party leaders Pechtold (D66) and Buma (CDA) mutually agreed that they will call on the cabinet to come up with a detailed tax reform by February 1, 2015 at the latest. This morning it emerged that faction leader Slob of the Christian Union, another member of the constructive opposition, plans to support D66 and CDA in their call.
A call for the politically impossible: last summer it turned out that the VVD and PvdA lack the money and, above all, political space to pile a new reform on top of the drastic package of the past two years.
Here is the net result prior to the General Political Reflections that started this morning: the cabinet, which for the first time in years presented a budget with relatively positive prospects, a budget for which there is a large majority in Parliament, was forced onto the defensive again.
The same cabinet that was accused time and again last year of wanting to reform too quickly and too radically, is now suddenly a team for the opposition that "puts off the problems" (Buma) and a "powerless Budget Memorandum" (GroenLinks -left leader Van Ojik) presents.
Pechtold, co-responsible for the budget, set the tone. Unemployment is simply too high to sit back now, he said: more haste and decisiveness is needed. The Council of State, the most important advisory body to the government, also lacks "the urgency and necessity" for "concrete measures or reforms". Loosely translated: cabinet, keep reforming.
In a sense, some coalition politicians agreed, Prime Minister Rutte is getting a taste of his own medicine. As opposition leader during the Balkenende IV cabinet, he managed to present the lack of reforms under that cabinet as a show of political lethargy. The criticism led to the recovery of the VVD in the polls - and branded Balkenende IV as a cabinet that got nothing out of its hands.
The coalition points out that the cabinet is still full of ambition - but especially in the implementation of reforms that have already been accepted by parliament. Just look at long-term care, the housing market, the labor market, the energy agreement and the student loan system. And then there are new projects, such as a new pension system and the implementation of the 'environmental law' that is overhauling spatial planning. "I think the agenda is packed," Rutte told journalists in the Torentje yesterday.
Yet there was no other option than to draw up a "cautious" budget for 2015, Minister Dijsselbloem (Finance, PvdA) said yesterday during the presentation of the Budget Memorandum. The economic recovery is fragile and the international situation uncertain, so the cabinet is cautious. for "overly confident statements about the future".
Opposition circles were pleasantly surprised last night about the way the government handled the de facto postponed tax reform plan. The opposition thus received "a present" for the General Considerations: to cover up a relatively favorable budget by insisting on a plan for later.

Graphic

 
Prime Minister Rutte with (from left) Sybrand Buma (CDA), Arie Slob (CU) and Alexander Pechtold (D66) in Parliament this morning.

Load Date: September 17, 2014


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")