Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Donation higher, the student pays; National Budget Economy Cabinet wants to stimulate, but cuts are piling up
NRC Handelsblad
September 18, 2013 Wednesday


Copyright 2013 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: In the news
Length: 650 words
Body


INVESTMENT BANK
Pension funds and insurers will set up an investment institution together with the government, with the aim of providing more credits for investments. The banks may be given a role in the Dutch Investment Institution (NII).
STAMRECHT-BV'S
Stamrecht BVs, which usually contain money from severance payments, can no longer be established from next year. Savings: 800 million. The assets from existing standing rights BVs may be paid out in one go. Taxes need to be paid on only 80 percent. That yields a one-off 1.2 billion.
TAX-FREE DONATIONS
From October 1, 100,000 euros can be donated tax-free when this money is invested in repaying a mortgage, residual debt or renovation of your own home. Normally, exemption from gift tax only applies to approximately 50,000 euros.
UNEMPLOYMENT: 600 MILLION
To combat unemployment, 600 million will be made available, intended to finance plans to keep the elderly and young people in particular in work.
ALLOWANCES GO TOGETHER
There will be one so-called household allowance in 2015 to replace the many allowances such as healthcare allowance, housing allowance and child-related budget. Older people will lose an average of 25 euros.
CHILD ALLOWANCE LOWER
The child benefit for older children is gradually reduced to the amount that children up to the age of 6 receive.
POVERTY: 80 MILLION
For 2014, 80 million euros are available for combating poverty and tackling debt. In the following years it will amount to 100 million euros. The money is mainly intended for families.
TAX DISCOUNT LIMITED
The tax credit and employment tax credit will be income-related. The maximum labor tax credit will be increased by 374 euros and reduced to 367 euros for incomes from 81,000 euros. The general tax credit will increase by 99 euros. For incomes above 20,000 euros, the tax credit is gradually reduced.
LITTLE MONEY FOR ASPHALT
There is little money for investments in roads. The Blankenburg tunnel, the extension of the A15 near Arnhem and the A13/A16 near Rotterdam and the widening of the Utrecht Ring are given priority. In 2014, 149 kilometers of asphalt will be added.
PERMIT SIMPLER
You can soon apply for permits related to spatial planning at a single counter. The government wants to incorporate fifteen laws, such as the Water Act and the Crisis and Recovery Act, into the new Environmental Act.
700 MILLION EDUCATION
Because the National Education Agreement has been concluded, the 700 million euros that have been reserved in the coalition agreement for investments in education will finally be released: 250 million will go to secondary vocational education, 344 million to primary and secondary education. But then the AOb education association should not throw a spanner in the works, because it has not yet signed the agreement.
STUDYING IS MORE EXPENSIVE
The students will pay for all these investments in education. They will lose their basic grant in the master's phase next academic year and will have to borrow money. The basic grant will follow in 2015 in the bachelor's phase. There is little enthusiasm among the opposition for these plans for a loan system, which makes the financing of all investments in education uncertain.
SUITABLE EDUCATION
Appropriate education will be introduced on August 1, 2014: children with learning difficulties must be in the classroom together with 'normal' students as much as possible. A report from the Court of Audit shows that one in five schools has so many financial problems that the introduction of appropriate education is jeopardized.
CULTURE NOW OUT OF SHIPPING
The government is keeping its promise to keep culture out of the wind. Cultural education is given some priority. Contrary to what was planned by the previous government, the Culture Card for students will continue to exist for another ten years. The subject Cultural and Artistic Education (CKV) remains a compulsory examination subject at HAVO and VWO.

Graphic

 
Coin1euro
Infrastructure
WW

Load Date: September 18, 2013


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")