Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Senators: 'Ministers must also defend the rule of law'
NRC.nl
April 30, 2023 6:12 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All rights reserved


Length: 1428 words
Byline: Folkert Jensma, Wafa Al Ali
Highlight: The cabinet puts off too much, ignores its advisors, neglects social connections and opts for 'hard, hard, hard'. Two former judges in the Senate are concerned about whether Rutte IV still listens to his rule of law advisors.
Body


Is politics losing sight of the rule of law as a transcendent collective interest? Former judges Gala Veldhoen (52) and Jeroen Recourt (52), members of the Senate for GroenLinks and PvdA respectively, fear so. The words 'care' and 'worrisome' come up so often in the conversation that it is difficult to find a positive ending.
The legal bloc of the left, which already works closely together and will operate in one faction for the first time after the Senate elections, is well aware that the Senate is a political body in which coalition interests are usually decisive. Yet they mainly want to advocate the rule of law, which protects all citizens against the power of the state. Their concerns are "not political," they say. They are also regularly shared by other factions. Then a bill is stopped, a rare novella is forced, an evaluation is brought forward, a substantive change is made or a bill is quietly withdrawn (see box).
What helps is that the role of the media in the Senate is small, they say. Recourt, who was a member of the House of Representatives for seven years, says he finds that "very nice". This makes collaboration across coalition boundaries easier. But in terms of content, the trend is not positive. The authority of the 'rule of law' as an argument in political decision-making is decreasing, he and Veldhoen see.
A positive note? Well, okay then. They consider themselves fortunate that there is a "strong legal bloc" in the Senate compared to the House of Representatives. The Senate has many lawyers from professional practice, divided over several parties. That leads to a conversation at a “very decent” level. And therefore corrections are required on a regular basis. If only that were the case in the House of Representatives, they think.
Where is the greatest pain?
 JR: “That you are presented with legislation that all implementing organizations advise not to do, which the Council of State is critical of, after which the minister says that such a law should be introduced anyway. Political will is then the deciding factor, or the coalition agreement.”
 GV: “There is often no substantiation as to why a minister wants it anyway, and the Senate then agrees. Extremely worrying.”
 JR: “I find that worrying from the government's side, but also from the House. For example, when we say that a bill is contrary to a treaty, the Senate allows the bill to pass anyway. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to vote it down immediately, but at least take a break and ask for an explanation.”
Can you give a concrete example?
 GV: “We recently experienced something very special when the Environmental Act came into effect. The Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State - which never does that - has sent a letter to the Senate on its own initiative stating that they are very concerned about the digital environment of the Environmental Act. They expect that many procedures will result from this. So they really sent an urgent letter, saying: know what you are doing.”
 JR: “The entry into force law was passed here, despite that urgent letter. Ministers have a political agenda and that is fine. But they must also defend the rule of law. This is there to protect the citizen against the government. Take the increase in the penalty for manslaughter, which has recently happened. Criminal law is too often used as a policy instrument and no longer as an 'ultimum remedy', a last resort.”
The minister then shows her vision, namely 'law and order'? And even if the maximum penalty for manslaughter increases, so what?
 GV: “I call it muscle legislation. That's where political expediency comes into play. The minister 'can show that she is doing something'. But society doesn't ask for it. And neither does the field. I wonder then, what is the purpose of that law? Who does that help?”
 JR: “It is a right-wing political agenda. Hard, hard, hard. The idea that punishment helps. The fact that it occasionally goes straight through constitutional principles is taken for granted. The coalition can of course get a decent majority over the right. And she knows that.”
Is the conclusion then that the rule of law is not in good hands with the right?
 JR: “This right, what we have now. I think a political vision is fine, but make sure that legal protection is in order.
Are you averse to politics?
 JR: “We are also political, but the rule of law is something different. That is the foundation.”
 GV: “In the Reinforcement of Public Housing Management Act, the judge of first instance is cut out, because you see that many people are going to litigate. People who want to litigate must immediately go to the Council of State, which must also give a ruling within six months. So because the judiciary is overloaded, you try to frustrate access to justice. I would say you need to strengthen the system and avoid weakening it further.”
Also read: Clash with Hungary over the rule of law
Has it ever happened that you had doubts about the rule of law of a law and that you still voted for it for idealistic reasons?
 JR: “Maybe once, recently. That was the bill about a double surname. We are ideologically in favor of that, but we believe that there is a discriminatory element in the law. The remaining provision states that if you do not arrange anything about your surname, you will automatically receive the man's surname. We believe that this provision should be neutral, so both names. However, we thought it would go too far to cancel the entire law because of this one element.”
What other dilemmas have you faced over the past four years?
 GV to JR: “Punish and protect you by law, right?”
The Punishment and Protection Act prescribes that perpetrators of serious crimes may no longer be released early once they have served two-thirds of their prison sentence. In practice, this means that perpetrators may be released a maximum of two years in advance.
 JR against GV: “That dilemma was on feasibility. Punishment and protection is about the way in which detention is carried out. We voted for that, you voted against it. I fear that GroenLinks has been right.
“In the beginning you assume trust in politics. The more often that is shamed, the more difficult. But I also think a policy of distrust functions very poorly.”
 GV: “Here too, the decisive factor for me was that the implementation itself doubted whether the law could be implemented to the extent and speed that the minister had in mind. We have to listen carefully to implementing organizations, and I think we are now reaping the sour fruit of the fact that we have not done all that.”
Okay, but isn't safety also important for left-wing voters?
 GV: “As progressive parties we must embrace that domain more, we must be more agenda-setting. We would therefore invest justice and security with other measures. Listen better to what the field comes up with, what science comes up with. Make sure that you have civil society on board, that the entire social context is in order. That the GGZ functions again. All those basic facilities have been scaled down in no time. You see people who are having a hard time passing through all the counters in the rule of law: for rent, for benefits, for debt problems, for supervision orders, for minor criminal offences. A lot has been shifted to the police and the judiciary because it is not properly socially secured elsewhere.”
The PvdA faction voted in favor of the Punishment and Protection Act, GroenLinks voted against. How are you going to do that later?
 GV: “I think you should talk to each other until you reach an agreement. I have sometimes made a parallel with the council chamber during multiple hearings. You can also think very differently about the results there.
“In the end, the three of you always reach a solution based on arguments. That is also the case in the faction.”
 JR: “I don't worry about that for a second.”
 GV: “I think you are a bit more pragmatic about it, also based on your background. At GroenLinks we think more principled.”
You oppose the 'stalled participation society'. This was mainly used under Rutte II, of which the PvdA was part. Soon you will be in one faction with that party. Do you have difficulty with that?
 GV: “I don't really have a problem with that. I think you should look at the content again and again. And when I look at how the debates take place in our country... We have the same ideals, so I have every confidence in it.
Senate Influence on laws

Load Date: May 17, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")