Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=More and more often I think: government, better do nothing for a while
de Volkskrant
April 1, 2023 Saturday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Saturday; Page 14
Length: 879 words
Byline: KUSTAW BESSEMS
Body


Column
If an alien had landed and immediately after leaving his spaceship had said: 'Politics doesn't work for everyone here, think about services in the countryside', I think we would have thought that was very clever. If that creature had added in the same breath that recovery for benefit parents, help for Groningen victims and the nitrogen approach should be improved, we might have thought: he had been reading up in another galaxy.

But it wasn't an alien. It was Mark Rutte, Prime Minister for twelve years.

What are the possibilities? One: what he is telling us was always possible, but he is only taking action now that an election defeat threatens his political fate. Two, he had trained himself to consistently say "terrible earthquakes" and "terrible benefits scandal" but didn't mean much of it. Or three: nothing will be solved, but this is what it has to look like to give the coalition a boost and so they start doing things, no matter what.

I am most concerned about such a spectacle of decisiveness. Because it is not that the government has done little in Groningen. Much correct. Convincing demands for compensation from residents are fought with fire and sword on behalf of institutions that are officially there to help. Another investigation and another counter-expertise, until not only the house but also the will is cracked.

You can argue that it was decisiveness that caused the recovery for benefit families to stall more than ever. The rationale sounded good: 30,000 euros for each affected family and then see who is entitled to more. The result is that those most affected are now drowning in a sea of ​​applicants. And no matter how tragic, perhaps the least bad choice is to walk down this difficult path, instead of taking yet another side road.

More and more often I think: government, better do nothing for a while. If the idea is sympathetic, we must be extra careful of the consequences, because that makes us stink. This week a study was published into the intention to abolish VAT on fruit and vegetables. You can hardly resist it. But then the outcome: you incur a lot of lawsuits about which items are exempt, the tax authorities cannot implement the plan and there will probably be little improvement in health.

Left-wing politicians reacted with irritation and scorn: which country cannot decide that broccoli is a vegetable and pizza is not? I found the research convincing. The systems at the Tax Authorities are so outdated that we will be happy if they can perform the simplest tasks in the coming years. And in the business world, lawyers already seem to be warming up.

Free childcare is the same thing. There are serious indications that this will lead to even greater staff shortages, price increases and greater inequality. Not even an implementing organization has been found that can put the measure into practice. The left thinks it's just whining. And later make a fuss about the resulting chaos, for sure.

The House always demands intervention, never not to intervene. And we in the media are participating. 'Environmental Act postponement again', our news headlines complain. It is not clear from this that the introduction is risky and that all those delays have saved us from worse. We will soon be shaking our heads as we read the empathetic interviews with citizens stuck in the system.

I have not yet recovered from the obligation for thrift stores to register all their items, a perverse effect of a measure against fencing. Still stunned by the news about another ten thousand families who have been pushed into poverty for years due to a kink in the tax system. But look, here comes State Secretary Van der Burg again with a dispersal law for asylum seekers under his arm, which everyone and their mother is screaming is unworkable. There is simply 'support' for it.

Getting plans 'through' is where ministers score. Rarely do you read praise because something is canceled. A 'political index' is circulating on Twitter, in which MPs are judged on adopted motions and bills. A first place is celebrated jubilantly by the lucky person. The more activity, the better! And all you can hope is that the damage caused by all that activity isn't too bad.

We really don't need a government that only sits on its hands. Look at nitrogen. Precisely because of the years in which everything was allowed to take its course, everything now has to happen at once. Doing nothing leads to doing too much. But there is insufficient awareness that our government apparatus is broken. And if you keep powering a broken device, it will burn out.

These times require revaluation of what we consider important. Overdue maintenance deserves more reward than coming up with something new. Discussions focus too much on what should be done and not enough on how. Taking a step back more often, taking a deep breath, looking at the matter again, that would improve everything. And apart from crises, a good rule of thumb is: if you have serious doubts, don't do it.
If the idea is sympathetic, we must be extra careful of the consequences, because that makes us stink

View the original page: page 14

Load Date: March 31, 2023


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")