Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Stop the fiction of 'local customization'; Management
 Use the province to get stuck local government out of trouble
NRC
May 1, 2021 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION & DEBATE; Page 1
Length: 1451 words
Byline: Annemarie Kok
Body


ABSTRACT
Opinion
Management
Skewed relationships between the national government, provinces and municipalities affect the quality of the rule of law, government and democracy, writes Annemarie Kok. Central adjustment is urgently necessary.
COMPLETE TEXT:
While the number of social problems in the Netherlands is increasing rapidly, our public administration is declining. The causes are a negligent government, wait-and-see provinces, over-demanded municipalities and more than 1,200 regional partnerships that are not very democratic.
As constitutional law expert Douwe Jan Elzinga recently noted in a lecture during the Day of the Council (read: municipal council), there is "not yet the beginning of a thought" in the administrative Netherlands about which government task is suitable for which level of government: "We just do what." And it has been that way since 1970.
Between then and now, the central government (which expanded partly due to the welfare state) assigned a large number of substantive, implementation and supervisory tasks to municipalities and other bodies. Responsibilities that were perceived as administrative burden were thus conveniently organized away, at lower costs for the government. In the short term, at least. It was often said that local implementation makes policy more integral, specific, flexible and recognizable to citizens - that would be the beauty of decentralization.
The municipalities (united in the VNG) bravely took on new tasks again and again, from inspection work and welfare tasks, and from the implementation of social laws and climate policy to the establishment of a 'multiple democracy'. They are currently also preparing for the entry into force of the Environmental Act on January 1, 2022 - a complex and controversial operation.
In order to develop enough 'administrative power' for all their tasks, municipalities merged. They also started to collaborate more in regions on individual themes, from safety to the labor market and from transport to energy. As a result, the average municipality is now involved in 33 regional associations. Bad for local democracy, because councilors have too little influence on it, civil servants get lost and citizens are generally unaware of it. In the meantime, a fully equipped democratic administrative layer, namely the province, ended up sidetracked.
To date, the seriousness of this inter-governmental trouble has remained woefully underexposed in both the political and public debate. And the responsible Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations (BZK) is not taking action. The latter recently led to strong criticism again from the Advisory Division of the Council of State.
In a concise review at the request of the minister and the so-called decentralized umbrella organizations (VNG, Interprovincial Consultation and Union of Water Boards), the Council of State writes plainly that there are "structural tensions and associated management problems" in public administration.
The Council also notes that municipalities are overloaded and calls the 2015 decentralizations in the so-called social domain insufficiently thought through. The advisory body therefore believes that no new decentralizations should be implemented in the coming cabinet period, that the problem of insufficient democratic legitimacy at a regional level is urgent, and that the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, equipped with new powers, "should concentrate on public administration, democracy, the rule of law and the constitution".
Striking observations. But some other points from the Council of State's memorandum are open to dispute. Such as the view that various municipalities are too small. Rather, the excessive supra-local collaboration reveals something else: that it was often not logical or responsible for municipalities to take on additional tasks.
Even when decentralization meant drastic cuts, as in 2015, the VNG was happy to go along with it. And just like the national government, the VNG also stated time and again that social tasks (WMO, Youth Act and Participation Act) were best left to municipalities because 'customization' could be delivered there: taking into account local wishes and circumstances in the implementation of a law, and giving 'to each his due' - instead of to each the equal.
However, in the decentralization discourse personal and local circumstances are invariably confused. It seems to me that there is no reason to implement a social law differently because people are residents of, for example, Vlaardingen or Vlagtwedde. On the other hand, a person's personal situation, regardless of where he or she lives, can be taken into account - within certain margins and on the basis of general administrative principles.
If we look at local situations, different policies are obvious. After all, no municipality and no province is the same in terms of area, population, population structure and economic structure. And so there are various issues here and there around housing, spatial planning, level of facilities and social problems. Local elections and municipal councils exist especially to deal with this.
However, this has nothing to do with customization. 'Local customization' is therefore a misleading concept that is used by the government to avoid responsibility for decent legislation and implementation, and that gives municipalities an attractive aura of importance and people-oriented, but in practice they have to pay for this by suppressing their basic political tasks and damage to their democratic character. And in the meantime, residents in need of help are encouraged to become more self-reliant in quasi-empathetic 'kitchen table conversations'.
Moreover, a more complex society benefits more from keeping political structures clear than from making the government incredibly complicated. That is why I advocate a reorganization of activities, with renewed attention to legal certainty and legal equality on the one hand, and with a sharper eye for personal circumstances and local differences on the other.
In my opinion, all citizens and (local) politicians and administrators benefit from carefully designed legislation. Just like with easily accessible, staffed information desks in every municipality, including as part of newly formed provincial or national implementation organizations. For example, in the areas of environmental supervision, licensing, issuing passports, organizing elections and youth care.
Once again: the current administrative malaise did not arise because certain municipalities are too small, as the Council of State states, but mainly because too many tasks were assigned to the municipalities. More municipal reorganizations - a suggestion from the Council - is therefore not a solution. These will, among other things, lead to even more meaningless provinces. And that is a shame, because in view of various current problems, these provinces can still or once again fulfill a useful function: relieving municipalities, taking over tasks from regional partnerships and helping to carry out future government tasks properly and therefore with authority.
The second way in which the Council of State wants to make municipalities more decisive and democratic is to integrate the above-mentioned thematic regions more closely. But even in the case of a smaller number of regional partnerships, municipal councils are still at a distance. Unless there are own elections for such a condensed regional layer. However, anyone who seriously wants to reduce 'administrative pressure' and prefers to avoid endless system discussions should once again look sympathetically at the constitutionally anchored province as a potentially vital part of necessary changes. Regional branches are conceivable in the larger provinces for certain implementation tasks.
In short, there are enough reasons and considerations for a thorough political-official reflection on valid inter-administrative principles. This reflection should take place within and from a Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations that is the guardian of high-quality, rule-of-law public administration. It would be good if this responsibility were stated and made concrete in a new coalition agreement. So that national government, provincial-regional government and local government can together cope with the multitude of crises with which the Netherlands is struggling.
Another version of this piece appeared this week in De Hofvijver, a publication of the Montesquieu Institute.
The government is avoiding responsibility for decent legislation and implementation
Annemarie Kok is a publicist and affiliated with the University of Groningen.
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Notes

Another version of this piece appeared this week in De Hofvijver, a publication of the Montesquieu Institute.

Load Date: April 30, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")