Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dried out Veluwe longs for new swamps. Are there solutions?
De Volkskrant.nl
July 27, 2020 Monday 10:56 AM GMT


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1650 words
Byline: Joris Tieleman
Body


  The Veluwe is withering away due to the prolonged drought. The water board is trying to solve the worst problems with meandering streams and a ban on surface water consumption, but more drastic measures are actually needed. 'Endless pumping is not possible, we will also have to adapt to nature.'
Every step releases a small cloud of dust from the forest path. The black soil at the bottom of the Voorstondensebeek is firm and dry. As area manager Dennis Dorman of the Vallei & Veluwe water board jumps into the dry stream, he says: 'In a normal year the water would now be up to my knees'.
Since the warm, dry summer of 2018, the Veluwe has been struggling with a growing water shortage. While the low-lying north and west of the Netherlands are recovering quickly, this does not apply to the high sandy soils in Drenthe, Brabant and Overijssel, and therefore here on the Veluwe. Rare fish such as the brook lamprey and the bullhead are threatened with extinction, harvests are threatened, plants such as the water crowfish are dying.
Cover again
February seemed to save the day with some heavy downpours. But just when everything started to come out again and the farmers had planted, things took a turn again: 2020 is the third year in a row that there has been an exceptional drought here. Warm, dry and a strong easterly wind: as if a giant hairdryer was passing over the country. The precipitation deficit, the difference between precipitation and evaporation, broke date records all spring.
The heavy showers in June and July made the top layer of the soil wet again and replenished the groundwater somewhat. However, much of this water quickly evaporates on the warm, dry days between showers.
“Dry periods are no longer exceptional,” says dike manager Tanja Klip-Martin of the Vallei & Veluwe water board, as she walks through the Voorstondense forest near Zutphen in June. 'We have to get used to a new normal: long periods of drought, alternating with heavy showers.'
This also requires a more active, almost political role for the water board. In the past, draining water was the trick. Now water boards, nature managers and farmers must learn to deal with the alternation of drought and downpours. And especially when considering structural solutions, interests quickly collide, with farmers wanting dry soil and nature managers wanting more marshy land.
Contradictions
The contradictions in local technical solutions are still manageable. Then the question is: how do you turn the soil into a sponge that retains as much moisture as possible? You start by keeping the dams closed, closing the connecting pipes between ditches and constructing reservoirs. Even during the historically wet month of February, hardly any water was drained here. But, says Klip-Martin: 'There are limits to what we can maintain with technical interventions.' In the longer term, the drought requires a different way of thinking.
Walking quietly along the overgrown stream, she sketches with her hands in the air how this landscape came into being. Glaciers pushed up a large lump of hills during the penultimate ice age. The groundwater layers rose along with it. In the 16th century, the inhabitants discovered that you could create streams here by digging horizontally until the groundwater flowed out of the hill. This water, 'white coal', was used to power paper mills, copper mills and sawmills.
The water board wants to make these streams, drawn deep, straight and wide through the hills by human hands, 'more natural', so that the water drains less quickly. Shallow, narrower, meandering, overgrown with plants that slow down the water. “We used to mow everything neatly here,” Dorman points out the green wealth around the waterway. 'Now we mow much later, and often only on one side of the stream. Then the flow slows down and the water has the opportunity to sink into the ground.'
In fact, the vegetation should also be adjusted, says Klip-Martin as she walks under the many long conifers. The pine forests, planted here in the 19th century to provide the Limburg mines with sturdy beams, bear needles for twelve months a year, which catch the winter rains before they can penetrate the ground. They also drink groundwater all year round. “It would be better to have deciduous trees here,” says Klip-Martin. 'But we're not about that. This forest belongs to all kinds of different landowners.'
Distribution issue
Where water used to be mainly a nuisance, it is now increasingly a distribution issue. Dorman points to the sprinklers of the neighboring farm, which fan out a soft mist above the grassland: 'Even low-value crops such as grass and corn have been irrigated in recent years. In the past that didn't pay off. But replacing a completely dried-out turf is expensive.'
To protect nature, Klip-Martin has banned spraying with surface water in almost the entire water board. In the historically dry summer of 2018, she imposed this ban on July 2. In 2019 it already had to be on June 5. This year: May 18. Now many farmers use pumped groundwater. Klip-Martin fears that we are losing more and more of the clear, sand-purified freshwater reservoir under the Veluwe, also through drinking water extraction and evaporation. She wants to discuss this with major users such as drinking water companies, industry and farmers.
“There is currently not one agency with a complete overview of groundwater pumping,” says the dike manager. Medium-sized users request permission from the water board, large-scale users from the province. For installations under one hundred cubic meters per hour, farmers only need to report. That's a lot: an average household uses one hundred cubic meters of water in a year.
Farmers
Art Wolleswinkel, board member for water of the farmers' association LTO in the Gelderse Vallei, would like to have a conversation. But he does not see a problem with irrigation by farmers. 'Most farmland actually provides more groundwater. Fields catch almost all the rain, after which it sinks into the soil. Then shouldn't farmers be allowed to pump some water again?' He sees more benefit in a different drinking water supply. 'Vitens is extracting more and more groundwater here. They would be better off getting that from the Randmeren.'
The drought is making the dike manager's job, which used to be mainly a technical job, increasingly more political. 'Our water management works as part of a larger system. Where are the nature reserves, the water buffers, the buildings?' The rule has always been level follows function - the water board tinkers with the water level until it matches the zoning plan. 'It doesn't work that simple anymore. In the Netherlands, the water system is reaching the limits of feasibility. We are increasingly forced to have an opinion about other people's areas of work.'
environmental code
This realization is also starting to dawn on The Hague. From 2022 onwards, the new environmental law will offer more policy space to water boards. In April, Minister Ollongren called in a letter to parliament for the creation of areas where water can be buffered. 'Relocation of functions (agriculture, nature, housing) will be required in a number of cases.'
Is this a silent revolution? Klip-Martin falls silent for a moment. 'Yes. This is a big step that we have been hoping for for a long time. We cannot just keep setting up pumps and dams, we will also have to adapt to the natural water system and the changing climate.'
She also has concrete plans for that. The Veluwe freshwater bubble is not only shrinking due to excessive groundwater use and warm summers. Historical maps show that the upland area was once surrounded by a ring of swamps and peatlands. These formed a horizontal counterpressure for the Veluwe groundwater that threatened to seep away due to gravity into the lower surrounding area. Now that we have drained everything so effectively, that groundwater is still being washed out and eventually disappears into the sea.
Klip-Martin: 'We want to restore those swamps and peat areas in some places. Then you use a natural system to hold back that upwelling water.' Peat and swamp also absorb a lot of CO2, while drying peat emits a lot of greenhouse gases. For example, according to the water board's Blue Environmental Vision, the village of Dieren, about ten kilometers to the south, should be surrounded by a crescent of 'swamps and wet agriculture'. Klip-Martin: 'But yes, then we again have an opinion about other people's areas.'
Maarten Kuiper of research agency Wareco fears that the swamps and lakes around the cities will not remain neatly in place. 'People often think in terms of a top view, from Google Maps so to speak. Planners sometimes forget that water also moves underground.' These water buffers can raise the groundwater level in cities such as Apeldoorn. This increases the risk of moisture problems in homes.
A waste of agricultural land
Wolleswinkel from the LTO farmers' association is also less enthusiastic. 'This plan hits me pretty hard. Nobody wants dehydration, of course. But it is a shame to simply turn good agricultural land into a swamp.' The problems are more likely to be in urban areas. “Everything is tiled there.” It can also be more subtle, he thinks. His own fields already have more herbs and grasses with longer roots that retain water better.
When she walks out of the forest again, Klip-Martin shakes her head: it won't be easy. It was not easy when she had to tell corn growers in 2018 that they were not allowed to spray with surface water, but their neighbors, the fruit growers, were allowed because they had a higher-quality product. And the hardest part is yet to come: the discussions with all parties involved about groundwater and the spatial planning of the country. She suddenly stops and jabs the air with her finger. 'But it has to be done. Groundwater belongs to everyone, including the generations after us. We have to be careful with that.'

Load Date: July 27, 2020


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")