Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wet feet more often
The Telegraph
June 4, 2016 Saturday


Copyright 2016 De Telegraaf All Rights Reserved


Section: Domestic; Page 008
Length: 424 words
Byline: Nico Fassotte
Body


 Water damage in Europe already costs 4 billion annually
by Nico Fassotte
 and Hugo Huijbers
Amsterdam - There were falls in France, Belgium and Germany in recent days
At least thirteen people died as a result of the storm. In the Netherlands it has remained that way until now
material damage, especially in Brabant and Limburg. Yet it is all hands on deck.
Because the risk of water damage in the Meuse basin will increase in the coming years
will only continue to increase for years to come. This is due to the increasing construction
this so-called risk area and the scarce use of water-retaining materials.
This is the conclusion of researchers from the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.
“France in particular is building a lot of crazy in risk areas, with all the consequences
of that. We also have a lack of information provided by the
government,” emphasizes lead researcher Jeroen Aerts. “Rivierland is what it is
densely populated because these regions are the engine of the economy,” continues
Aerts. “Not enough account is taken of this during construction
flood hazard. The warning systems must also operate between countries
improve each other.”
Despite the fact that only material damage occurred in the Netherlands,
our country has thought about how to deal with the increasing threat of
flooding, say the water boards. “We give seven thousand times a year
advice, especially regarding zoning plans. They generally turn out well
taken over. But you do have to further adjust water management. It is
important for climate-proof construction. In the new Environmental Act that is coming
comes, the water test becomes less non-binding. It is being investigated whether
building regulations can take more account of flooding," says one
spokeswoman for the Union of Water Boards.
Water damage in Europe amounts to approximately 4 billion annually. Like the current one
pattern continues, this will increase to 50 billion euros in 2050. For these costs
To suppress this, the French government in particular is campaigning to arrest citizens
towards risk prevention. Without much success, according to the report
the Amsterdam University.
In the Netherlands too, the government is trying to draw citizens' attention to the
flood risks. The financial consequences could be disastrous in the future
are.
“The damage in recent days still falls within the regular contents or
building insurance,” explains Rudi Buis of the Association for Insurers. "It
is a different story when, for example, a dike breaks and there is a problem
is of collective damage”.
'Inadequate information'

Load Date: June 4, 2016


End of Document, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")