Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=VVD members about coalition agreement: 'D66 claims too many successes'
De Telegraaf.nl
December 19, 2021 Sunday 11:59 AM GMT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Nederland BV All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; FRONT PAGE
Length: 715 words
Byline: Mike Muller
Dateline: THE HAGUE
Body


Now that the coalition agreement of VVD, D66, CDA and CU has a sauce of D66 positions, liberals are asking themselves the question: did VVD members Mark Rutte and Sophie Hermans negotiate well or has the VVD given away too much?
The atmosphere within the VVD last month - when CU leader Gert-Jan Segers left documents lying around on the train - was downright concerned. Prominent liberals feared that their largest party would not sell the skin dearly. Purely and solely to stay in power. But after reading the agreement, the genie seems to be back in the bottle for the time being. “I am actually quite satisfied,” says VVD member and former Speaker of the House Frans Weisglas. “It is said that D66 won the negotiations, but I don't see it that way. They mainly claim a lot of things... D66 the education party? As if the VVD is against good education! The D66 minister of education who has been at the controls for the past four years was not the most successful either...
Another prominent person thinks that it is 'part of the deal' that D66 "will now take most of the credit for getting the party on board." The liberal: “D66 had to do the most. After all, Rutte will become prime minister again, they are without PvdA and GL, but with CU, two nuclear power stations, no tax reforms and the VVD gets more security money.”
Migration
A tour of the country shows that there are concerns about migration. “I would have liked to see a more realistic migration policy. No more sticking it out, and for the ambition to deport failed asylum seekers more quickly, I say: first see, then believe," says VVD councilor Mark Raat from Medemblik. The local former party leader would have liked to see a stricter 'Danish model'. “But unfortunately you cannot expect that with a coalition that also includes D66 and CU.”
These migration concerns also exist within the 'Classical Liberal' wing, which was previously downright critical of the party's direction. “But we are not going to repeat ourselves now, but make adjustments where necessary,” says a member of that club. VVD faction leader Claire Martens in Amsterdam says she is 'positive' about the negotiation result. “Apart from a number of personal reliefs on medical and ethnic issues, things are looking good, above all expectations, for Amsterdam.”
Schuldenberg
However, there is widespread criticism within the party about 'summitary' compensation that students receive now that the loan system is being abolished. One billion euros has been provided for this, while calculations show that much more will be needed now that the debt mountain has risen to more than 24 billion. “Now that billions are being thrown around, are we going to let this generation end up paying the bill?” says a prominent VVD member.
The JOVD, the youth organization of the VVD, also has 'serious objections' and wants the cut to be made. The club calls it "scandalous that an entire generation of students continues to carry a debt with them." JOVD chairman Daphne Lodder: “There is now a seven-year gap of students who are insufficiently compensated and thus have unequal opportunities compared to students in the future who did receive a basic grant in the past.”
Mortgage interest deduction
VVD member Helma Neppérus, who previously expressed concerns in the Telegraaf about further abolition of mortgage interest deduction, is happy that 'there is nothing more to read about this'. “A great result,” she says. What she finds most positive is that more attention is now being paid to housing construction. “That will be desperately needed in the coming years.”
That theme is more widespread. Although not everyone is reassured. VVD faction leader Martens from Amsterdam says that she is 'concerned about the housing construction challenge'. “I hope that the measures we have now taken are sufficient. Amsterdam alone could use 100,000 homes, especially in the middle segment.”
Medembliker Raat shares this opinion. “It is really important that the government takes control of housing construction, because everything is now frozen by procedures, rules, nitrogen and so on,” said the liberal. “The Environmental Act is coming and that should make everything easier, but I fear the opposite. Hopefully the new Minister of Housing will take up that role. Stop whining and just build, because the current impasse in the housing market is perhaps the biggest social problem.”

Load Date: December 19, 2021


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")