Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Windmills do not have pleasant contact with the government
NRC Handelsblad
September 3, 2015 Thursday


Copyright 2015 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: opinion
Length: 800 words
Byline: Marc Chavannes Clearances
Body


Ahmed Aboutaleb had the audience almost at his feet when he delivered the annual H.J. School lecture in Amsterdam on Tuesday. The mayor of Rotterdam likes to fool around with "the ideological bickering of national politics". Rather pay attention to our kind of urban areas. That's where the new economy is brewing. Singapore on the Maas. Put aside the central government, don't stand in the way.
It was revolution light. The argument of the most watched Summer Guest and pet manager of the Netherlands was in line with what the Secretary General of the Ministry of the Interior, Richard van Zwol, wrote in June in Domestic Governance: the Netherlands is in danger of falling behind, the economy needs to fast and agile management.
Take down the barricades again, Ahmed. The Hague already agrees with you. Just tell us what to do. Merge provinces? Rushing through environmental impact assessments? Thin out rules? Decentralize more and more tasks? Thank you, you are so close to the people and you can also work cheaper. Thanks for making our cuts.
But don't think that in those shiny towers of The Hague they only talk about the flashy economy of tomorrow. They are also busy with the new democracy in which people together determine what their lives will look like. The government is happy to help. See the 'Pleasant Contact with the Government' project - I am not making this up - which yesterday organized a conference on 'Future-proof Good Governance'.
The new government is strong but also very kind. Yesterday, in addition to being results-oriented, it was mainly about openness, integrity, accountability, participation, nice things like that. 'Does the decentralization and digitization of government tasks take sufficient account of safeguarding the rule of law?'
People with a personal care budget will not immediately recognize all those fine values. According to the recent report of the National Ombudsman, the PGB drama is a textbook example of national politics that focuses on incidental fraud by PGB mediators, and then focuses on a centralistic solution that has never been sufficiently thought through, let alone guided. And then deny it.
Camera to the House of Representatives, where a debate is scheduled for tonight on 'delays in the construction of wind turbines' - a curious formulation that again points to unclear responsibilities.
Ask the people in the public gallery, from Groningen and the Drenthe Peat Colonies, whether they experience 'pleasant contact with the government'. There is a chance that they will throw you over the edge of the balcony.
Minister Kamp of Economic Affairs has already come to talk a few times. This has not generated real support for the dozens of large wind turbines that are planned there. It's a shame because the minister is doing his best to implement the 2013 Energy Agreement. The government does not want to be forced by an action group and the courts, but it does aim for 14 percent sustainable energy by 2020. To this end, 6,000 megawatts of wind energy must be generated on land.
Hence the race against time to install wind farms in all kinds of regions. Citizens, united in action groups such as Storm Meeden, Tegenwind Veenkoloniën and Tegenwind N33, experience the rough and ragged sides of modern thinking in The Hague. They notice that plans that directly affect the quality of life in their municipalities have been imposed as if by an invisible hand. That's no coincidence.
The philosophy of the new Environmental Act is that of a privatized spatial policy. This broad law has not yet been adopted by the Senate, but Kamp is already acting on it: let private developers, for example of large-scale wind farms, provide information and support themselves. They may or may not do so. Provinces and municipalities in windy areas also feel attacked and do not know who they are talking to. An hour of Camp won't help.
The confusion and the feeling of being put under pressure from The Hague is all the greater because the government can provide instructions for projects larger than 100 megawatts. That volume is achieved by adding up several separate projects. A trick that does not increase the credibility of democratic public administration. The king's commissioner in Drenthe, former PvdA leader Tichelaar, spoke this week at yet another pleasant management conference about 'a failed decision-making process, full of miscommunication'.
Now that several municipalities, including in Westland, are rejecting the arrival of wind turbines in their area, the government must choose: push through or involve more people than handy landowners. For the time being, we are left with a new government without any idea of ​​a new democracy.
Spatial planning left to private investor

Load Date: September 3, 2015


End of Document, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")