Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Agricultural business is increasingly experiencing problems'
The Gelderlander
December 19, 2016 Monday
Rivierenland Edition


Copyright 2016 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 16
Length: 362 words
Byline: MENNO PROVOOST
Body


According to governments, the large scale of agricultural (side) businesses in the region is increasingly interfering with the design of the road network, the quality of life for local residents and other functions such as recreation and tourism, notes Jan den Hartog, LTO chairman of the Western River Area.
Especially in fruit growing, there are a number of companies where sorting, packaging and trading have become the main function. According to Den Hartog of the agricultural and horticultural organization LTO, this concerns 15 to 20 percent of the companies that have become truly industrial in scale. The province in particular is pushing for these companies to be better able to establish themselves on an industrial estate.
Den Hartog wonders whether that is feasible. "It has grown so much over the years. Who is going to buy out companies and move them to an industrial estate? And what do you do with the existing buildings? It would be a huge destruction of capital."
Fruit company
You might wonder whether the typical Betuwe fruit companies belong on an industrial estate, says Den Hartog. "Any nuisance is limited to the season. You have to have a little leniency."
According to him, the question is to what extent it is only these companies that cause problems. "The roads are often not suitable for large trucks. But the milk tankers or the trucks that deliver feed are just as big. The agricultural machines are also not small. In addition, there is a lot of cut-through traffic from passenger cars in this area. Perhaps adapting the roads is often a better and cheaper solution."
Den Hartog hopes that the arrival of a regional environmental service and the Environmental Act - which combines many existing rules for building and the design of an area - will lead to a more clear regional policy. Especially now that there is a threat of vacancy because many agricultural companies are closing down. "In a purely agricultural municipality like Geldermalsen, there is constructive input, but it also has to adhere to the rules of the province. In Tiel there are more restrictions for companies. There is bubbles everywhere and developments are being looked at. It would be nice if this the region is being short-circuited."

Load Date: December 18, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")