Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The love is over between Sint-Michielsgestel and the environmental club: 'It just doesn't work this way'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 12, 2024 Friday 06:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 439 words
Byline: Jos van de Ven
Body


SINT-MICHIELSGEstel - It seemed so nice, the collaboration between the municipality of Sint-Michielsgestel and environmental association Het Groene Hart. Consult together in time about plans to ultimately avoid court proceedings. But behold: the marriage has failed.
The quality of spatial plans must be improved, as was the opinion in 2017 at both the municipality and the environmental club. By using the knowledge and expertise of Het Groene Hart.
The parties signed an agreement almost seven years ago. It was agreed, among other things, to involve the association in the plans at an early stage. At a time when these could still be adjusted and improved.
There is no question of cooperation
After less than seven years, love is completely over. "In practice, it appears that Het Groene Hart hardly responds to invitations to participate in the environmental dialogues, while they do submit views and appeals against the same plans. Then there is no cooperation," says councilor Lianne van der Aa (CDA) of spatial planning.
The zoning plan for rural areas is given as an example. The environmental association was invited several times, but this was not responded to.
“Nonsense,” responds secretary Helmus Boons of Het Groene Hart. “I have worn out some tires in the direction of Sint-Michielsgestel,” continues the native of Den Bosch. “The basic attitude in Gestel is wrong, just like in many municipalities. We are not asked to the table or are asked too late. It just doesn't work this way.”
Not all officials knew that agreements had been made
New civil servants all the time
In order to make an attempt to smooth out the consultations, there were regular consultations about four times last year. That was also to no avail. Boons: “At the municipality we had to deal with a lot of new civil servants. Not all of them knew that agreements had been made.”
Gestel unilaterally terminated the collaboration, this communication intersected with a letter from Het Groene Hart in which the association indicated that it was also dissatisfied. The proposal to be involved in plans as early as the exploratory phase was rejected by the municipality. "This would mean participation before an official or administrative position has been taken," said Van der Aa.
Invited?
With the introduction of the new Environmental Act (as of January 1), initiators of construction plans are obliged to enter into discussions with other parties and stakeholders. This also applies to Het Groene Hart. Boons: "You don't think that we will be invited by planners, do you? They only sit at the table with local residents.”

Load Date: January 12, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")