Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The air disappeared from the local budget
NRC.NEXT
March 1, 2021 Monday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 10
Length: 1927 words
Byline: Titia Ketelaar

Mark Middel
Body


ABSTRACT
research into municipal finances
Only twelve municipalities are under guardianship, but 336 supervision letters show that almost all municipalities have financial problems.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Playgrounds, libraries, swimming pools, the music school and the only theater in the region. Johan Hamster, councilor for Finance (Christian Union) of Stadskanaal, has been cutting back on "everything and everything" for ten years. The cheese slicer has also been cut over his own civil servants and welfare work, he says. Only by increasing the burden on residents , the municipality managed to keep facilities open.
Until this year. After 18 million euros in cuts over the past ten years, the municipality must make another 7 million cuts this year. It went too far for the city council. The council members do not want to "destroy Stadskanaal". So they decided to submit a non-balanced budget to the province. "Once we close facilities, they will not come back," says Councilor Hamster.
The financial problems of their municipality are now tangible and not only for the 'Knoalsters' (the residents of Stadskanaal). Residents in Zoetermeer see that their rose garden is no longer cared for by the municipality. The roads in East Groningen have not been maintained for a long time. In Den Helder this applies to street lighting, in Elburg in Gelderland to the old synagogue.
Simmering financial crisis
These are, as NRC saw, the outward symptoms of a dormant financial crisis at local level. In almost all municipalities, regardless of the political composition of the councils, deficits have now risen so high that the air has disappeared from budgets. Subsidies for welfare, cultural and sports institutions have disappeared, poverty policy, district funds and essential tasks such as maintenance and services have been cut. And it is palpable for many residents: the costs have increased at the same time.
NRClas 336 supervision letters that the provinces send in response to the submitted budgets for 2021-2024, and spoke to councilors and deputies with the Finance portfolio. Of the 355 Dutch municipalities, 19 were not included because they have recently merged or will do so next year. 12 municipalities are under guardianship because they did not receive a balanced budget for 2021 and their multi-year budget. But the letters show that a third of the municipalities were unable to submit a balanced budget for 2021.
Almost all other municipalities have had to make cuts, use their reserves or increase charges, or will do so in order to achieve or maintain a balanced budget over the next four years. This is, several provinces write, at the expense of investments. For example, a number write: "Municipalities are therefore increasingly less able to commit to major social tasks and urgent transitions."
Almost without exception, the letters mention "targets" and "reductions", euphemisms for cutbacks. In Haarlem, for example, the cuts will amount to 4 million in 2024, in Heerlen, "just like in previous years, the budget has been gone through with a dust comb" and cuts of 8 million will be made this year and 20 million euros in the next four years. In Eemnes, the net debt ratio (debt to income ratio) is so high that the province of Utrecht labels it as "risky". The Hague has used all reserves and can no longer compensate for "future setbacks".
“Few municipalities are under guardianship. If you look at the photo, things seem to be going well," says South Holland deputy Floor Vermeulen (VVD). "But in the film there is a danger: not a single municipality in South Holland has any fat left. the bones and everywhere the budget has been balanced with some art and craft work." "It is nothing less than a silent disaster," says Frisian deputy Sander de Rouwe (CDA). "It is not a catchy topic. It does make the big news, but only when many facilities disappear, such as the swimming pool and the library. I can say on a note that this will happen en masse in three or four years."
The cause lies in 2015
The cause of the structural shortages lies in 2015, when municipalities became responsible for, among other things, youth care and the Social Support Act (Wmo). It is precisely there that large deficits have arisen, 1.7 billion euros annually according to a recent study commissioned by the government and the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG), because at the same time the central government was cutting back on the healthcare budget of municipalities.
Many of the 336 letters contain something about this 'social domain': higher costs than budgeted in Almere, increasing costs in Beekdaelen in Limburg, cuts "necessary elsewhere" due to rising costs in Edam-Volendam, "post youth care" remains a concern in Utrechtse Heuvelrug.
Jon Herselman (VVD) from Kapelle in Zeeland, the longest-serving councilor in the Netherlands and accountant, calculates: "In 2017 we had a deficit in the social domain in Zeeland of 17 million euros, in 2019 56 million per year. It may well be that it is not the best organized everywhere, but it is a shame that it is not well organized anywhere."
Councilor Hamster says that more than 60 percent of Stadskanaal's budget now consists of costs for the social domain. "While in 2013 we were one of the financially soundest municipalities of the then 23 Groningen municipalities. All signals were green then, all key figures were good."
Isn't the poor financial position the fault of the municipality itself? No, says Hamster, "in the years that followed, we did not start any strange projects, we did not speculate with land or initiate megalomaniac projects. If you make it yourself, you also have to deal with the blisters. But that's not the case here."
According to local administrators, their structural financial problems are so urgent that they demonstrated last summer at the Binnenhof, a rare event for aldermen and mayors. Minister Kajsa Ollongren (Home Affairs, D66) said that he first wanted to get a better picture. Municipalities and the government are now negotiating whether additional money is needed.
Deputy IJzebrand Rijzebol from Groningen (CDA) thinks it is "high time that the minister takes action instead of just saying that she will investigate." If she has a better method for making churches healthy, who am I to argue? But I haven't heard any plans. There needs to be some movement." If that does not happen, the consequences could be dire. During a recent speech for the VNG, chairman Jan van Zanen, mayor of The Hague, warned: "Then we may not even be able to play a role play more in the Climate Agreement. Then we cannot implement the Environmental Act."
Not just need more money
Do the municipalities point the finger at the minister too easily? After all, they decide for themselves whether a sports center should be built and they can raise money by increasing property taxes or waste taxes. No, says Marc Rosier (VVD), councilor in Zoetermeer, firmly. "New tasks are unfeasible if the finances are not in order first." According to him, more money is not the only solution, a structural change is also needed. For example, with the Wmo, he sees that the government has introduced a so-called subscription rate, which means Everyone can call on the municipality for domestic help, for example, regardless of their income. "That created an attractive effect."
While municipalities had to carry out former government tasks, government regulations limit the options for making their own policy choices, local administrators say. The South Holland deputy Vermeulen has a metaphor for this: "Municipalities received a boat, but no steering wheel and no paddles. Success with it!"
This spring, negotiations will begin on a redistribution of the Municipal Fund, with which the government provides municipalities with 85 percent of their income. Many councilors were shocked by the first concept: 159 municipalities, including almost all in Friesland and Groningen and the four major cities, will suffer financially from 2023. According to the proposal, a now financially healthy municipality such as Heemstede will have to hand in 2.7 million euros, 73 euros per inhabitant. "We see the risks coming," says councilor Nicole Mulder (GroenLinks).
Tensions in local politics
Almost all political parties say something about the Municipal Fund in their election manifestos; there is a chance that financial issues will be taken into account during negotiations for a new cabinet. "All councilors will say that the pie should be bigger," says councilor Derk Reneman (VVD) in Hoogeveen. "I will repeat that to them."
He proposes, like some others, to bring the budget for the social domain into line with that of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, which grows slightly every year. "Then it is realistic." Otherwise, municipalities should be able to levy more taxes themselves, which will increase their income, says Reneman: "It is one of two things: the government will put more money into the Municipal Fund or the municipality will get more out of the population." I prefer the first. The second takes time, it has been discussed for thirty years."
The Frisian deputy De Rouwe now sees that the financial problems are causing tension in colleges and municipal councils. "The councilor must explain that taxes are going up, but the facilities are being scaled back. Who still wants to become a councilor? Who wants to give the message every time: we have to close the swimming pool, we cannot manage the library?" The same predicts councilor Derk Reneman: "Municipalities are becoming ghost organizations. It has to be managed and reorganized. No political party can go back to the voters with the message: I can do this for you."
In three or four years the swimming pool or the library will disappear, Sander de Rouwe (CDA) deputy
Municipalities received a boat, but no steering wheel or paddles Floor Vermeulen (VVD) South Holland representative
What does the election manifesto say?
Most parties have something in their election manifesto about municipal finances and tasks. For example, the CDA wants better agreements between the government and municipalities, and additional investments: "New tasks always require a new budget." D66 also notes that the municipality has been given more and more tasks. Local democracy must meet this "growing responsibility". do justice. Denk notes that municipalities "regularly" sound the alarm about shortages and argues that they should be given more opportunities to vary the property tax. GroenLinks believes that the financial contribution from the government to municipalities should be increased and they should be given more options. to levy taxes themselves, for example on vacant properties. The PvdA believes that the cuts to the Municipal Fund (from which the government pays municipalities) should be stopped. The Party for the Animals believes that further decentralization should only be allowed if the task lends itself to it local authorities are "sufficiently" (financially) equipped. Furthermore, municipalities should not always be confronted with new interim cuts. The SP wants municipalities to receive much more money to make policy and choices themselves, especially in regions where facilities are already under pressure. The VVD sees that municipalities (and also provinces) need multi-year financial security. When assigning new tasks, attention must be paid to financial coverage.
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Right above: Work of art in the center of Stadskanaal that refers to the peat past. Right: New benches could still be removed. Above: Here and there, traces of overdue maintenance are visible.
Photos Kees van de Veen
Many looming shortages

Load Date: February 28, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")