Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=De Meeuw is allowed to place 100 flexible homes on its own property, provided that no nuisance arises
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 29, 2023 Wednesday 02:28 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 345 words
Byline: Jesper de Vaan
Body


OIRSCHOT - The hundred temporary homes that construction company De Meeuw wants to place on its own site must not cause any nuisance to the surrounding area. Under this condition, the Oirschot municipal council agrees to the housing plan, to which there is a lot of resistance in the neighborhood.
This means that construction company De Meeuw can work together with the municipality and housing association Thuis on a final design for the 100 homes on its own site on the Industrieweg in Oirschot. Of these, 20 are intended for our own staff and 80 for social rental. Because this concerns temporary homes for 30 years, the municipality can start this more quickly.
Although there seems to be a good chance that Oirschot will first have to go to court, now that about 20 surrounding companies have hired a lawyer. During the consultation round, lawyer Melanie Stultiens from law firm Goorts + Coppens called for the plan to be scrapped due to its illogical location and expected nuisance.
She points out that the city council sounded the alarm earlier this month about a major shortage of industrial land, which makes this location illogical. She also fears restrictions for entrepreneurs, for example when expanding or if residents complain about traffic nuisance.
The parties did not respond to that call. They are happy with the initiative and the high number of social rental properties. Homes for which there is a major shortage, but whose construction is difficult to complete. Councilor Joep van de Ven (residential) spoke of a unique opportunity, now that De Meeuw wants to use part of its own grounds as a showcase for their activities. The council had previously agreed.
Additional terms
To ensure that the area does not experience any nuisance, the council came up with additional conditions. All parties agreed to monitoring parking pressure, the obligation to give the homes a high-quality appearance and the appointment of a caretaker, who local residents and entrepreneurs can also contact. According to the councilor, the Environmental Act also checks whether construction does not hinder business activities.

Load Date: November 30, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")