Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The difficult search for a way to get citizens to participate
The Limburger
January 20, 2023 Friday
Maastricht


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: CITIZEN PARTICIPATION; Page 4
Length: 533 words
Byline: Annelies Hendrikx
Body


The fact that things are not yet going well in Maastricht with citizen participation became clear on Tuesday evening during a city tour. Speakers - often representatives of neighborhood networks - were allowed to let off steam, but not on the most sensitive topic of the moment: spatial planning.
The young Scharn-West Neighborhood Network reports that a neighborhood inventory yielded twelve themes that raise "a lot of concerns", says Jeanny Engels. She shared a 26-page document about this with the municipality, but nothing happened. "We have been working for three years now, but we don't feel heard. I am happy with citizen participation, but I am not sure how we can get it done."
Ombudsman
Perhaps a municipal ombudsman can play a role in this, suggests Chris Meys of Buurtbalans and Buurtnetwerk Limmel: he can investigate and assess complaints about local government. Wouter Mulder of the Jekerkwartier Residents Association is also in favor of this.
Maurice Martens of Neighborhood Network Ceramique asks the council members what they expect from the neighborhood networks. “We only have a listening function, we do not represent the neighborhood. And we sometimes feel distrust from the government. How do you see the input from the neighborhood networks?" CDA member Mat Brüll states that it should indeed be clear "what expectations we have of each other".
The expectations of this consultation round were tempered right from the start by chairman Anita van Ham. Because: this is not about citizen participation in spatial planning projects. While there are quite a few complaints in this area these days from citizens who feel completely sidelined in construction projects such as Klevarie and the old PTT power station in the heart of the city. But: "That is a different domain." And this will only really come into play with the Environmental Act, which has been postponed time and time again, but should still come into force in July.
Not always
'Participation is a major subject in which we still have a lot to learn together,' the council proposal also states. Citizen participation is not always possible, the council warns. However, from this year onwards, 850,000 euros have been structurally reserved for 'participating in discussions, collaboration and decision-making'. Various neighborhood networks would like to receive a budget to hire external expertise themselves, say Chris Meys and Maurice Martens, among others.
Guidance
Many questions are also not answered. These are mainly about participation in 'spatial developments', for which the council established a 'guideline' in November 2021. According to this guideline, an initiator must organize participation, even if the municipality is the permit issuer. Huub Smeets, advisor of Buurtbalans, criticizes this several times. He urges the council to correct this 'omission' "today". That is not happening. Although Bert Jongen of D66 assures him that his words "do not fall on deaf ears".
I am happy with citizen participation, but I am not comfortable with it. How do we get it done?
Jeanny Engels, Scharn-West Neighborhood Network
It must be clear what expectations we have of each other.
Mat Brüll, CDA councilor
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 19, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")