Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='The Hague Champions League'
The Gelderlander
January 21, 2017 Saturday
Betuwe EditionMaasland EditionMaas en Waal EditionNijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 19
Length: 650 words
Byline: SASKIA WASSENAAR
Body


The Gelderland from below the rivers is faring poorly when it comes to candidates in an eligible position for the upcoming House of Representatives elections. But there are still more than the current number of members of the House of Representatives. VVD member Hayke Veldman (47) from Nijmegen and party member Nouchka van Miltenburg from Zaltbommel are the only ones. Four years ago Veldman was number 49, now 39 on the VVD list.
Who is Hayke Veldman?
"Someone who has lived in Nijmegen with great pleasure for almost thirty years. In the Lower City since the late 1990s. I have been active for the VVD in the Nijmegen city council for years, also as party leader. I have been a Member of Parliament for more than 2.5 years.
And do you love @Communicaatje, water sports and Switzerland? According to your Twitter profile that is.
"Communicaatje is my wife Karin. And I used to be a competitive swimmer and have also been active for Aqua Novio for many years, including as chairman. I have a connection with almost all sports that you can do in, on or under water. Switzerland is just a beautiful country to go on holiday. We have a lot here, but no mountains."
How was the transition from Nijmegen to The Hague?
"You do local politics in addition to your work, which is a side job. In The Hague you are involved in politics full-time. You also get a bit of a double life, because you are in The Hague half the time. But the work is Basically the same: you are a representative of the people. It's just at a different level. Nijmegen is the Premier League, The Hague is the Champions League."
Your portfolios are spatial planning and public administration. Not exactly sexy, huh?
"There are topics that make it easier to make the front page of the newspaper. But it is work that needs to be done. In spatial planning, we are working on restoring no fewer than 26 laws that you now have to take into account if you want to build something somewhere. This is the biggest change in the law since Thorbecke's constitutional amendment in 1848. Not sexy, but this affects everyone."
What do we see from you as a Member of Parliament?
"I am currently working on an initiative bill to no longer make it possible for municipalities to pass the burden of sewerage and waste tax solely on homeowners. This is the case in Nijmegen and 190 other municipalities. I think it is an unfair distribution of the costs. Everyone uses the sewer, right? The starting point should be that the polluter pays. Not only the owner, but also the tenant."
How can we tell that you are from this region?
"I know what is going on in this region and try to ensure that choices are made in The Hague that Gelderland can benefit from. For example, the Achterhoek was designated as a shrinking region a while ago, but would subsequently not share in the money spent on these types of regions are available. At my suggestion, that has been fixed."
Can you also give an example that concerns the south of Gelderland?
"There has been talk for years about a rail terminal near Valburg (where large companies such as Lidl and Heinz can put containers with goods on the train, SW). There are investors, the province has allocated money, but there is still a million-dollar gap. I strongly believe that the national government should also contribute. At the proposal of the VVD, we are now looking at what the national government can do."
How could it be that there are so few Gelderland MPs from below the rivers?
"No idea. I do know that it is good that there are people from the region active in the House of Representatives and I would also like to continue. Unknown makes unloved. If The Hague does not know what is going on here, you are less visible and you get less for each other. That is also the responsibility of Nijmegen administrators, they should work a little harder. I am sometimes fed more by other regions than my own region."
There are of course topics that make it easier to make it to the front page of the newspaper
Hayke Veldman

Load Date: January 21, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")