Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Environmental Act? 'A blessing to humanity'
The Limburger
August 10, 2022 Wednesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: POLLUX & VERDONSCHOT; Page 2
Length: 453 words
Byline: Frans Pollux
Body


You may be thinking: drought, inflation, burning hay bales with Nazi flags - what a mess it is. But it could have been, and let that be small consolation, much worse. At the same time, the new Environmental Act was introduced on July 1.
That would have been a tragedy, says a former councilor who runs an environmental law consultancy firm. Normally in a piece like this you prefer to quote citizens, ordinary people who are completely stuck in the system and have lost their jobs, partners and preferably their homes due to failing algorithms. But ordinary people are still missing, now that the introduction of the law has been postponed (again). And until its introduction and the resulting drama, citizens will not think anything of the Environmental Act; it's far too complicated for that. So complicated that, despite ten years of talking, practicing and taking courses, civil servants and administrators across the country still don't feel like they are ready for it.
"We have to jump, but we will only know after landing whether the law works," said 'an expert' in Nieuwsuur. Anonymously, because it was previously leaked that civil servants who criticized the Environmental Act were bullied by their boss. The official position of After all, the Ministry of the Interior is: the Environmental Act is great, the preparations are running smoothly and there is absolutely no one to be found who does not think so (and we will suspend anyone who secretly thinks so).
'A blessing for humanity', Minister Hugo de Jonge called the Environmental Act. It sounded slightly less overenthusiastic than De Jonge's average sentence. Meanwhile, criticism seeps through every crack and crevice of his smile. Previously, half of the aldermen involved already wanted a postponement or cancellation. Big cities said they were no longer interested in it. And the Council of State expects that the introduction of the Environmental Act will delay the construction of houses - while the entire law was invented precisely to speed up procedures.
About five years ago I led a series of debates on the Environmental Act. Nice idea, officials and experts thought at the time, but the sore point was ICT. Building and adapting systems, linking and coordinating, none of that went as it should. Now, five years later, the sore point is ICT. Building and adapting and linking and coordinating systems is not yet going as it should.
News this week: the minister has misinformed the Senate about this. He said in May that the software was finished. Not so, as the minutes now show. A lie about the main point of discussion? No, says the ministry, at most 'an unfortunate suggestion'.
Like I said, everything is great and things are running smoothly.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 9, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")