Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Third of municipalities in financial need
NRC.NEXT
March 1, 2021 Monday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: COVER PAGE; Page 1
Length: 592 words
Byline: Titia Ketelaar

Mark Middel
Dateline: The Hague/Groningen
Body


ABSTRACT
Municipal finances
The provinces note that almost all municipalities have financial shortages.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Almost one in three municipalities failed to draw up a balanced budget for 2021. This concerns a total of 120 municipalities that will not be able to complete their budget this year. Almost without exception, the other 216 municipalities have had to make tough policy choices, make significant cuts, use their reserves or increase the burden on residents to balance their budgets until 2024. This is evident from research by NRC of all 336 supervision letters that the provinces send in response to the budgets submitted by the municipalities. Nineteen municipalities were not included because they have just merged or will do so next year.
Twelve of the 336 municipalities are under guardianship of the province, three more than last year. They were unable to achieve a balanced budget year until 2024 and must submit a recovery plan in the coming months. But the number of twelve "masks" the problem, says Floor Vermeulen, deputy in South Holland (Finance, VVD). "You see that in some municipalities it has been decided at the last minute with the municipal council to use incidental money to reduce structural burdens. relieve or that reserves have been used. That is bailing, not closing the gap."
In Groningen, deputy IJzebrand Rijzebol (Finance, CDA) sees that municipalities have made cuts "with all kinds of pain and difficulty". "At a certain point it stops. Then the capacity to resist has disappeared or they can no longer face any setbacks. Three quarters of that hour has come to the churches." For residents, the financial shortages mean that further cuts will be made to facilities in the coming years, while charges such as property tax (ozb) could be increased.
The largest deficits in municipal budgets are in the social tasks of the municipalities, such as youth care, social assistance and the Social Support Act (Wmo), which provides support for the elderly so that they can continue to live at home for as long as possible. These tasks were transferred to the municipalities in 2015, often accompanied by budget cuts.
Don't take corona into account
Due to corona, the financial position of municipalities is further deteriorating. Many supervision letters warn that municipalities have not taken this into account. Warnings are also given about upcoming tasks, such as the Environmental Act and the implementation of the climate agreement. No money has yet been made available for this.
Negotiations are underway about a redistribution of the Municipal Fund, the money that municipalities receive from the government and which provides 85 percent of their income. But, provinces warn, some municipalities are already taking more money into account in their multi-year budgets. While a concept shows that 159 municipalities will suffer during the redistribution.
In 120 municipalities, the budgets were structurally balanced until 2024, although in some provinces it was not possible to determine how municipalities achieved this. For example, the province of North Brabant conducts "limited" research if the municipality's annual budget provides "a sufficiently complete picture".
That province concludes, like most provinces, that in all municipalities balancing the budget "was only possible through drastic measures". Zeeland talks about "a lot of difficulty". A number of provinces state: "Municipalities are therefore increasingly less able to commit to major social tasks."
Link to PDF

Load Date: February 28, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")