Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Thirty to forty new homes in Leende, mainly for starters; construction starts next year
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 10, 2024 Wednesday 06:25 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 560 words
Byline: Willie Thijssen
Body


LEENDE - There is room for thirty to forty homes north of the Breedvennen in Leende. Construction is expected to start next year.
The plot where the houses are planned is located behind the Breedvennen and east of the Zwarte Pad. It is still agricultural land, but it is already owned by the municipality of Heeze-Leende. Next year, thirty to forty houses should be built and ready by the end of 2025 or early 2026.
As far as the target group is concerned, the municipality wants to give starters priority this time. “It must be affordable housing. Recently, more expensive houses have been built in Leende," says councilor Robert Groenewoud (housing/VVD). Seniors may also qualify. But Groenewoud expects that the place will be less popular among the elderly: "They would like to live more in the center."
The starting point is two-thirds owner-occupied and one-third rental properties
The councilor emphasizes that the housing plan is not yet completely finished. This spring it should become more concrete. “We are now going to work on it more quickly,” says Groenewoud.
It is clear that it will be a mix of owner-occupied and rental properties. Housing association woCom is interested in the share of rental properties. Groenewoud: “We have to see what the precise distribution will be. This will move towards the second third of owner-occupied and one third of rental properties.”
The owner-occupied homes will soon fall into the 'affordable' price category. This means that they are sold for a maximum of 355,000 euros. There is also room for a number of social owner-occupied houses. These will be sold for a maximum of 230,000 euros.
Flex housing on the other side of Zwarte Pad
Previously, part of the area was in the picture for ten flexible homes for urgent seekers, status holders and starters. The temporary homes were drawn right behind the school homes that served as a temporary primary school De Triangel for twelve years and were sold as homes in 2021.
Last year, the neighborhood and especially the new residents protested against the flexible housing, after which the municipality promised to re-examine the location.
There are no objections to the ten flexible homes on the other side of the Zwarte Pad
This has now happened and the conclusion is that the demountable houses do not fit within the new housing plan. “We have now located them on the other side of the Zwarte Pad and there are no objections,” says Groenewoud.
The councilor expects that the ten flexible homes will be delivered in April this year. The installation and rental are done via woCom. The target group is the same. The temporary homes may remain there for ten years. It will then be determined whether the destination becomes final or whether a suitable other location is offered to woCom by the municipality.
New construction Breedvennen first environmental plan
The construction plan for the thirty to forty homes east of the Zwarte Pad is the first to be developed in accordance with the new environmental law. This law came into effect on January 1. New environmental plans must replace existing zoning plans.
Heeze-Leende has decided not to immediately draw up a total environmental plan for the entire municipality, but to work with sub-areas. A start is now being made on the Breedvennen sub-area. All environmental plans for the entire municipality of Heeze-Leende must be ready before 2032.

Load Date: January 11, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")