Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Nederweert agreement will take some time
The Limburger
May 12, 2018 Saturday
Weert


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 4
Length: 412 words
Byline: BY PIETERNEL KELLENAERS
Body


NEDERWEERT
With at least three more sessions to go, it will take some time before the new coalition in Nederweert has an agreement. The 'slow files' in particular require more time.
While during election times the lengthy dossiers on Randweg, center plan and rural areas in balance could count on criticism from the opposition parties, these are now the topics that require more time to formulate a position.
This became apparent yesterday during the first substantive and public coalition meeting. In some areas, the contours of an agreement are slowly emerging; For the center plan, JAN, Nederweert Anders and D66 first want to know what the financial risks are if the Wijen plan, in which the Jan Linders moves to the Burgemeester Hobusstraat, is implemented differently.
As far as traffic bottlenecks are concerned, it has been agreed that we will first await the province's research, which should clarify the financial consequences of the construction of a Randweg or solving bottlenecks for, among other things, the N266. It has been agreed that the new council to be formed will provide advice to the municipal council with which not every coalition party has to agree. JAN is against the arrival of a Randweg, regardless of the results of the research.
They certainly want to realize a safe cycling route to Weert. "A safe crossing over the N275 at McDonald's cannot wait any longer, we have to disconnect that," Jan van Nierop of Nederweert Anders suggests with the agreement of the other parties.
With regard to the rural area in balance, the coalition appears to be heading for a policy in which the health of the residents comes first. "We can use the environmental law to prevent overload in an area by imposing conditions on air quality," suggests Marcel Vossen of JAN. The parties want more greenery and support for farmers who want to stop to prevent stable space from being used by Brabant residents. farmers.
Three new meetings are planned for the near future, one of which will be public. It is still unknown whether it will take place on Thursday evening, May 17, or on Saturday afternoon, May 19, which depends on the availability of officials needed for in-depth discussion.
In any case, on May 24, the coalition partners will calculate the financial consequences of possible positions.
 We can use the environmental law to impose conditions on air quality. Marcel Vossen from JAN
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 12, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")