Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The State of the Council » Stein
The Limburger
May 19, 2020 Tuesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 529 words
Byline: Eric Van Dorst
Body


Within an hour, the first council meeting in Stein was uploaded online on Thursday. All proposals passed unanimously. The agenda was not very exciting, but in the past less bait was needed to discuss endlessly, to play the man and push an alderman out of the saddle. In the meantime, there are workable relationships and a sound, commercially operating administrative organization. The cultural change that started in 2014 was continued after the elections. The coalition of DOS, CDA, SB and VVD is stable and provides direction in all kinds of policy areas based on the Kansrijk Governing Agreement.
The opposition, with CMB in the lead, is stirring its tail, but the attitude of the second largest faction is more positive and the tone milder. Leader Jack Meijers, appreciated for his file knowledge and financial insights, is phasing out local politics after half a century. Intended successor Willem Thewissen is critical where necessary and focused on consensus where possible. And that's quite often, it turns out.
Sound finances and vision are leading in Stein's politics. For example, long-term policy has been established for accommodations, subsidies, sustainable energy, tourism and cultural heritage. This is done as much as possible in consultation with citizens and organizations. Citizen participation is structurally organized in all centers via DOPs and residents also have more input thanks to the changed meeting structure of the council, which has split substantive and political deliberation. This is clarifying and time-saving, notes municipalities that come to Stein to see how it works.
Infrastructure
Stein is leading the way in the preparation for the introduction of the comprehensive Environmental Act. Work is underway to further improve the infrastructure for, among other things, the port and cyclists. Difficult decisions have been made, such as the privatization of the operation of Steinerbos and participation in the Participation Company Westelijke Mijnstreek. The latter despite skepticism about the business plan and the ingrained distrust towards its major neighbor Sittard-Geleen. However, there was no suitable alternative.
Is everything running smoothly in Stein? Not that either. Expanding the blue zone in the center failed and housing special target groups in the Elckerlyc school met with strong resistance in the neighborhood. Expansion of the De Fontein brewery is a hot topic for the neighborhood and in the coalition. The future housing of education in Stein (Maaskei and Kerensheide) is still uncertain, just like that in Berg and Urmond.
The biggest obstacle in the road is the sharply increasing financial deficit in the social domain, which all municipalities are facing. Stein's considerable reserve has evaporated. The council held a conference about this yesterday and painful measures are in the offing.
Houses
At the same time, work must be done on the energy transition and reduction of the stock of homes by approximately 1,250 by 2040. The Housing Transformation Vision is available for the latter task, a good and necessary example of inter-municipal cooperation. He could use a move. Something for the recently reappointed mayor of Stein to call her new colleague in Sittard-Geleen about.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 18, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")