Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The white spot of Chemelot
Limburgs Dagblad
April 29, 2017 Saturday
Park City


Copyright 2017 Media Groep Limburg / Limburgs Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 12
Length: 1037 words
Byline: BY SJORS VAN BEEK
Body


<B> BACKGROUND DESTINATION PLAN AN </B>
SITTARD
The zoning plan around Chemelot is considerably outdated.
This has to do with regulations regarding nitrogen, the authorities involved report.
Kim Schmitz, Groen-Links councilor in Sittard-Geleen, can hardly believe it. "The Chemelot zoning plan is already seventeen years old...?
I'm quite perplexed... I don't understand why a local government doesn't want this to be perfectly arranged."
She is not the only one who is surprised by the datedness of the zoning plan for one of the largest chemical sites in the Netherlands. She is also not the only one who does not know the exact reason why the plan has still not been updated, against legal requirements. "I didn't know it was over the date," says Andries Houtakkers, leader of the CDA.
<B> Out of procedure </B>
The facts: the zoning plan dates from the end of 2000 and, according to the Spatial Planning Act, must be renewed every ten years.
At the beginning of 2013, the Arcadis agency created a two-hundred-page 'preliminary Chemelot zoning plan', which subsequently entered the consultation procedure.
Two local residents submitted so-called views or objections.
A few months later they received a phone call that the plan was 'out of procedure' again. "No idea why," says OPA councilor Jack Renet. "Nothing was said to the council about it." The problem, according to municipal spokesperson Maarten de Kever, was nitrogen.
The province, as supervisor, also looked at the plan and reported that the municipality must calculate the nitrogen effects on surrounding Natura 2000 areas. If this 'preliminary test' was not carried out, the province would submit a view and the plan would be rejected by the Council of State, the province wrote to the Municipal Executive on March 27, 2013. "Because we agree with you that a new zoning plan for Chemelot should be drawn up as quickly as possible, we are prepared to investigate with you how a preliminary test or appropriate assessment can be carried out as efficiently and effectively as possible," said acting provincial head of Spatial Planning department. Development of Thijs Arts exactly four years ago.
But instead of carrying out that nitrogen calculation, Sittard-Geleen quietly removed the entire zoning plan from the procedure.
Municipal spokesperson De Kever: "We could not calculate nitrogen emissions because we do not know which factories will be built in the next ten years or which techniques will be developed to limit emissions."
<B>Foolish argument</B>
Legal scholar Twan Tak starts laughing loudly when he hears that explanation from the municipality. “Very sloppy!
Sittard-Geleen is in serious violation.
A stupid and foolish argument, don't let a judge hear it.
If you really cannot continue, you can turn to a higher government for help. Simply removing such a plan from the procedure is actually not possible at all. If a citizen now complains that the old zoning plan is clearly in conflict with the most recent insights in the field of safety and the environment and turns to the province, the new plan will have to be continued."
The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment says it is 'aware of the bottlenecks surrounding the updating of zoning plans' and 'is working with other authorities to find a solution in this area', the spokeswoman said. She cannot say what solutions are being considered.
DSM Nederland is the land owner at Chemelot. Spokesman André van der Elsen: "It is an administratively complicated matter. In the Netherlands, a new Environmental Act will be introduced and the old-style zoning plans will disappear. And so we are no longer going to invest energy in updating those zoning plans."
Provincial official Thijs Arts emphasizes that a zoning plan only says something about building height, construction requirements and the like. "But the associated environmental permit is based on environmental legislation in 2017, including an old zoning plan."
A government that allows a zoning plan to expire may no longer charge fees as a penalty. In this case, however, the sanction is a wash: after all, the negligent government is the municipality, but the province issues the permits - and therefore simply collects the fees.
Venray lawyer Paul van Hoef, who specializes in the field of zoning plans: "If no one is concerned about an outdated plan, everything will continue as normal. But it cannot of course be the case that there will be no current zoning plan for many years due to nitrogen problems. The Spatial Planning Act states: a new plan every ten years. Period."
<B>Uncertain situation</B>
Ben Ale, emeritus professor of safety and disaster management at TU Delft, also says something similar: "An expired zoning plan leads to a legally very uncertain situation. It can cause all kinds of problems regarding licensing and regulations. If someone challenges the case, we don't know what the consequences will be. That depends entirely on the local case and on the individual judge. A valid zoning plan offers absolute protection.
If a current plan says that something is not allowed, you simply will not get a permit."
Jan Willem Erisman is professor of integrated nitrogen studies at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. "Until July 1, 2015, almost everything ran on nitrogen. There are more than 160 Natura 2000 areas and there was hardly any room for expansion." In response, the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen (PAS) was introduced, with 'priority projects' where something more is allowed. The list includes 'Chemical industry: various new developments , municipality of Sittard-Geleen and municipality of Stein'.
Further details are lacking.
Jan Muijtjens is a board member of the Graetheide committee. All things considered, he's not very comfortable with it. “The Chemelot site covers almost eight hundred hectares, a large part of the municipality. And then no current plan!? I think there's something going on there. But what..??"
Comment? sjors.vanbeek@delimburger.nl
<B> No idea why the preliminary zoning plan was withdrawn from the procedure. Nothing was said to the council about it. Jack Renet (OPA)</B>
<B> The Spatial Planning Act states: a new plan every ten years. Period. Lawyer Paul van Hoef</B>
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 29, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")