Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dieteren new councilor in Nederweert
The Limburger
May 19, 2020 Tuesday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: PRESENTATION; Page 4
Length: 396 words
Byline: Pieternel Kellenaers
Body


Dieteren (54) is no stranger to Nederweert politics: she was a councilor and faction leader of JAN from 2002 to September 2015, and has been chairman of the board of JAN since her retirement, and she served as an informateur of the council immediately after the municipal elections two years ago. coalition of JAN with Nederweert Anders and D66. Dieteren has been chairman of the coalition consultation since the start of this coalition. It is still unclear whether she will continue to fulfill this role.
Mixed feelings
Dieteren was asked two weeks ago by JAN faction chairman Marcel Vossen to succeed councilor Henk Cuijpers, who died on April 12 after a short illness at the age of 57.
Dieteren: “That resulted in very mixed feelings because of the reason for the question. On the one hand, I am still in a grieving process because of Henk's sad farewell, on the other hand, you must be looking forward to starting a councilorship. And that feeling is growing now, also because I think Henk would want it that way. And I get a lot of support at home, which is also encouraging. And let it be clear: I am not Henk's replacement, I will do it my way. I will pick up where Henk left off and continue his life's work." For the time being, the intention is for Dieteren to take over Cuijpers' portfolio (finance, social affairs, welfare, care and Wmo, Social Support Act). Dieteren: "But the final portfolio allocation is of course up to the college."
HR manager
Dieteren works partly as an interim HR manager at the province of Limburg and is also coordinator of the implementation of the Environmental Act. “A good transfer is ensured for both roles. In addition, the tasks surrounding the Environmental Act will enter a different phase when the postponement of this law will be discussed with the minister on Monday." Dieteren will therefore relinquish her work at the province when she becomes an alderman in Nederweert. How the installation will proceed on May 26 is not yet certain. A digital council meeting was planned, but Vossen, who thinks it is "very nice" that Dieteren has said 'yes', is trying to turn this into a physical meeting so that the council members can vote in writing on the nomination to be nominated. councilor.
Dieteren: "But given the circumstances, as far as I'm concerned, it won't be a big party."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 18, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")