Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Hague is trudging along digitally
NRC.NEXT
April 14, 2020 Tuesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 14
Length: 1041 words
Byline: Rik Rutten
Dateline: The Hague
Body


ABSTRACT
           Politics
The regular work of the House of Representatives is slowly getting back on track. But digital meetings are not the same as a physical meeting, say MPs. And certainly not when the government sets the agenda to its will.
COMPLETE TEXT:
         Meetings at a distance of one and a half meters or using a laptop: parliament and the Constitution are not designed for that. "Thorbecke could not have known this," says Senate President Jan Anthonie Bruijn (VVD).
The Binnenhof is hard at work looking for ways to continue functioning in times of crisis, now that the corona restrictions can last for months or longer. "There is no doubt that parliamentary democracy must remain intact," says Bruijn, himself "half-time Senate chairman, half-time doctor and professor" at the Leiden University Medical Center (LUMC). The question is how this can be done safely and legally.
The answer is different everywhere. Municipalities, provinces and the Caribbean island councils have been allowed to temporarily meet and make decisions digitally since last week - thanks to a simple change in the law. Things are less easy for the Senate: the rules of the Senate are laid down in the Constitution. This prescribes that sufficient senators must be 'present'. The Council of State must now determine how broadly or modern this can be interpreted. In the meantime, the senators continue to meet once a week - in small numbers, one and a half meters apart.
Chock full
The task is greatest for the House of Representatives, where the agenda is normally chock full. Little came of this last month: of the three weekly meeting days, one remained, entirely devoted to tackling the coronavirus. Physical debates were replaced by written consultations.
That is about to change. Chamber Chairman Khadija Arib announced in a letter on Thursday evening that more space is slowly being made available for regular Chamber work. This means that the House will soon be able to meet physically two days a week again. The Oude Zaal, the debate hall of the House of Representatives until 1992, will also be opened again. The measures must lead to "a good balance between the continuity of the parliamentary process and care for the health of MPs, employees and journalists," Arib writes.
This is a relief for MPs who have mainly met digitally in recent weeks. "It doesn't give you any energy if you're dialing in through your screen," says Henk Nijboer (PvdA). "It remains unpleasant that you can't look your colleagues in the eye," says Joël Voordewind (Christian Union). the consultation by video connection. "You miss the body language, you no longer see the wink when making a comment."
Empty corridors
It remains to be seen. According to the Constitution, a minimum number of members (the quorum) must also be present in the House of Representatives during the corona debate days: 76. This would not be appropriate in the plenary hall. As a solution, all factions delegate one or two MPs, while the rest register with their Chamber pass and then stay in the office or leave again.
Interested parties who want to follow the digital meetings of the committees have so far been out of luck: they could not watch, but had to wait for a written summary that will be published at the end of the week. There will now be a listening connection for journalists, Arib promises. It is not possible to watch.
This is how The Hague functions in the corona era: democracy continues, but everything feels different.
The corridors are empty, informal appointments and get-togethers between MPs, like most meetings, take place digitally - unless there is no other option. When Voordewind had a confidential Defense meeting with his colleagues within the coalition last week, calling or Skyping was not an option. "We did not dare to do that because of confidentiality, so we made an agreement at the ministry," he says. "Well, neatly two meters apart, of course."
 But it was mainly the agenda of the House of Representatives that caused discord in recent weeks. According to many parliamentary groups, the cabinet allowed itself a lot in filling the scarce space. Asked for an overview of legislation that had priority "given the restrictive circumstances", the cabinet provided an Excel list of 84 'urgent bill proposals' that should be dealt with before the summer - much more than the House had in mind .
That's what you get, according to an insider from the coalition, if you ask ministers which laws in their department they would like to have approved quickly.
"The cabinet thinks: this is a crisis and we can take advantage of that," says Ronald van Raak (SP). "First the cabinet rightly imposes restrictions that ensure that we can hardly meet. Then they try as much possible to get laws through the House. Those ministers are misbehaving."
"A mess," PvdA member Nijboer calls the cabinet list. "If you can hardly meet, you don't expect the cabinet to roll out the whole shit cart." Many of the laws can hardly be called urgent, he says. Take a law that restricts Airbnb rentals, says Nijboer. "As if someone is taking advantage of that now."
Postponement 'due to corona'
The cabinet had already created suspicion by requesting a postponement in a number of headache files - the opening of Lelystad Airport, the Environmental Act, the implementation of the climate goals in the Urgenda judgment - by citing the coronavirus.
At his press conference after the Council of Ministers on Friday, April 3, Prime Minister Mark Rutte showed guilt after the criticism from the House. "What I don't want," he said, "is that atmosphere as if we want to rush through things." He promised to "sieve" the cabinet's list of priorities again.
 The House of Representatives has already taken on that task. Of the 84 proposals, fewer than ten have so far been scheduled, so that there is still enough room for the proposals that the House itself makes. The cabinet can request a postponement and make proposals. But the agenda is what the House itself is about.
The cabinet thinks: this is a crisis and we can take advantage of it Ronald van Raak Member of Parliament (SP)
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Johan Rudolph Thorbecke, author of the 1848 constitution.
Illustration Jet Peters/image Johan Heinrich Neuman, 1852/Rijksmuseum

Load Date: April 13, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")