Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=This is why Boekel missed out on almost 1 million euros
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 6, 2023 Monday 04:37 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 605 words
Byline: Kees Backx
Body


BOEKEL - One million euros in 'exchange' for the construction of more than thirty space-for-space homes before December 1, 2023. That deal struck the municipality of Boekel with the Provincial Development Company Ruimte voor Ruimte (ORR). But it almost went wrong.
The province's Spatial Planning Regulation prohibits the construction of new homes in rural areas, unless they are so-called space-by-space homes. This means that stables have to be demolished. Boekel expects that a total of 140,000 square meters of stable space from intensive livestock farming will become vacant by 2030. It is not necessary for the houses to be built on the site of the demolished stables, although Boekel is in favor of strengthening the neighborhoods.
The ultimate goal is to improve the quality of the rural area. And because there were many empty stables in Boekel, the Ruimte voor Ruimte Development Company (ORR) thought it would be a good idea to give Boekel an incentive subsidy of 1 million euros. If Boekel fails to offer thirty locations with associated zoning plans for such homes before December 1, 2023, the million had to be repaid.
Putting money on the table
The city council took its chances and instructed the council to put the money on the shelf and not spend it. Because at that time, September 2020, the counter stood at fourteen space-by-space homes. And the scheme would only apply from thirty homes. From then on, Boekel would receive a contribution of 50,000 euros for each house. And that for a total of twenty homes. At the end of 2020, then area director John Timmers calculated that the council would not be a problem: there were so many vacant stables in Boekel that even sixty homes could easily be achieved.
Don't build it yourself
The great thing was that Boekel did not have to build them himself. Only a location and a valid zoning plan were sufficient. The rest, any objection procedures and other risks, will be borne by the ORR. He will also build the homes at his own expense.
Boekel has plans for a new residential area on the western edge that will also accommodate twenty space-by-space homes, with which the municipality would meet the conditions of the deal
The number of homes has now increased from fourteen to twenty. Too little, with the result that the million euros would have to be returned. But Boekel is developing plans for a new residential area on the western edge that will also accommodate twenty room-by-room homes, with which the municipality would meet the conditions of the deal. That is why the Ruimte voor Ruimte Development Agency has agreed to a one-year postponement.
'The new date of December 1, 2024 will be met'
Boekel wants to make the draft zoning plan available for inspection before January 1, 2024, the date on which the new Environmental Act comes into effect. Councilor Ben Brands assumes that the new date of December 1, 2024 will be met.
Boekel's deal with the provincial development company is separate from the space-by-space homes that pig farmer Twan van den Heuvel was allowed to build on the Biesthoek - to compensate for the remediation of his company on De Elzen. The ten room-by-room houses that pig farmer Ronnie Braks would have been allowed to build if the reorganization of his company - also at De Elzen - had continued, are also excluded from the scheme. The councilor emphasizes that the million euros with which the municipality wanted to buy out Braks has nothing to do with the money that the municipality receives from the deal with the development company.

Load Date: November 7, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")