Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=This is what they wish for 2020
The Gelderlander
January 3, 2020 Friday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 881 words
Byline: RENÉ MEGENS
Highlight: Good intentions or wishes for 2020, who doesn't have them? We asked ten well-known locals what they want to do in 2020.
Body


New Year
Peter de Koning (66, Milsbeek, ex-mayor of Gennep)
"I have completed a year in which I was forced into a roller coaster." Danny sings Vera's song of the same name: "Here we go, On this roller coaster life we ​​know, With those crazy highs and real deep lows, I really don I don't know why... It was horrible. Worthless. I wouldn't wish this on anyone. I leave it all in the past of 2019 and hope that 2020 brings more respect, honesty and openness to each other. How beautiful can it be if we accept each other as we are?"
Wieke Vrijhoef (32, Nijmegen, theater programmer De Weijer in Boxmeer, gives cabaret lectures, board member of Young Talent Group)
.

“I really enjoyed giving cabaret lectures in 2019. There will definitely be a sequel. At De Weijer we are always busy with new plans and good intentions. Peter-Paul (Kissels, director, ed.) wants to have a positive influence on his environment with De Weijer. That's the best resolution ever. We will continue with that. And the Young Talent Group will be given a new look in 2020."
Emile Roemer (57, Sambeek, acting mayor Heerlen/ambassador Take off my mask)
“I don't do good intentions at the beginning of a year. I had an operation in September and I hope that my shoulder will soon be completely fine, so that I can play football and tennis again. I expect that there will be a new mayor in Heerlen in May or June. What am I going to do then? I do not have any plans yet. I am very proud to be an ambassador for the My Mask Off foundation. I notice that young people benefit greatly from learning to talk to others. Wherever I can help the foundation, I will certainly do so."
Iedje Heere (53, Cuijk, new rector Merletcollege)
On February 1, I will start as rector of the Merlet College in Cuijk, Grave and Mill. My aim is to work with parents, the business community, municipalities and the school to provide the best education, so that students have the opportunity to excel at their own level. I usually don't make New Year's resolutions in my private life, but if I had to mention something, my focus would be on exercising at least twice a week."
Marian Leideritz (69, Ottersum, secretary of the Gennep Events Foundation)
“For me, 2019 was all about meeting people and diversity of cultures. Contacts have been made and activities have been developed, which will hopefully continue in 2020. This year is also about 75 years of peace, freedom and friendship. We will celebrate this with a regional concert on May 5. My personal resolutions for 2020? Continue on the chosen path. Seeing others enjoy is stimulating. And I hope to make some trips.”
Hans Vermeulen (53, Sint-Hubert, dairy farmer, chairman ZLTO Land van Cuijk Noord department)
"I hope that the government will remain calm in 2020 when it comes to rules and laws and will accommodate us farmers. I also hope that, although our organization is becoming large (through a merger, ed.), the members will know where to find us. I will commit myself to that. I have several personal New Year's resolutions, but they usually don't get much done. That doesn't have to be in the newspaper."
Geurt Franzen (61, Boxmeer, journalist, writer, columnist, publisher)
"In addition to my columns, the historical section for De Gelderlander and journalistic work, I have decided to continue with creative writing work. I am now working on the regional collection The brutal murder of Berend Tap and other criminal stories. I am also writing a children's opera. In between, I translate Bob Dylan songs, compose songs and work on a manuscript for a third novel. I will also be giving lectures and presentations."
Geert Verstegen (67, Sint-Hubert, Environmental Association Land van Cuijk)
“A lot is going to happen this year. One crisis after another presents itself. It's hard not to become cynical. In 2020 I will try to draw more attention to the health of Brabant citizens. There are so many parallels between the nitrogen crisis, the climate crisis and the damage to the health of Brabanders that we cannot miss this opportunity. And I hope to have fun in 2020 by letting my tenor sax rip more often."
Rob Poel (60, Cuijk, former councilor of Cuijk and Sint Anthonis, owner of legal consultancy firm)
“2020 is the run-up year to the new Environmental Act. I want my consultancy firm to be ready if governments, private individuals and companies approach me for advice during the course of this year. My political career is not over yet. Now that the new municipality of Land van Cuijk has become a reality, I am already working on the elections in November 2021 and that could well lead to a surprise."
Emma Loeffen (21, Vianen, singer)
"I want to expand my music activities. I want to offer my show Emma & Friends to several theaters in the area. Another good resolution is to stay healthy. I think that's important. I go for a good combination of very hard work in music and relaxation, with friends and family."
One crisis after another presents itself. It's hard not to become cynical
How beautiful can it be if we accept each other as we are?
I hope that the government will remain calm when it comes to regulations in 2020

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: January 2, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")