Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=All balls on State Secretary
The Limburger
October 30, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: A; Page 4
Length: 492 words
Byline: Tobias den Hartog and Laurens Kok
Body


POLITICS After Wilma Mansveld's departure, discussion about portfolio division with minister flares up
Less prestige, but I take home a large work bag every day. After the departure of Wilma Mansveld, the discussion flared up that state secretaries mainly had to deal with ministers' headache files. “The minister may not fall, but the state secretary can.”
Vile joke in the Binnenhof from the opposition: a working day for State Secretary Wilma Mansveld?
Struggling with the NS, Prorail, the Fyra, the problems around Schiphol, the hassle at Air France-KLM, air safety after the MH17 disaster and greening the tax system. A working day for Minister Melanie Schultz? The unveiling of a speed sign (130 km/h! Hooray!) along the A15.
It may be a huge exaggeration, but the division of labor between the ministers in the Rutte cabinet is suddenly a subject of discussion.
Because although Mansveld (PvdA) already had a problem on her plate with the lingering headache file Fyra, didn't she have too heavy a portfolio anyway? And didn't Minister Schultz (VVD) get away with a 'fun package' too easily? Ministers and state secretaries divide the tasks upon taking office.
Considerations include: who likes what, where are the talents and - not unimportant - which file fits which political color. Asphalt and VVD are in good agreement, while the environment and PvdA are also more obvious. Things were no different in 2012 with Mansveld and Schultz.
The latter also saw an enormous task in the Environmental Act (although less sexy and sensitive) and wanted something other than the railway. There was no question of passing the buck, say those involved. In fact, when the Fyra dossier started to bother Mansveld, Schultz offered to take over aviation, it is now said in liberal circles. And in addition: as a minister in Rutte I and before that as a state secretary, Schultz also had a lot to do with the HSL, but never got into political problems.
Mansveld had the House on her neck almost immediately after taking office. Could it not also be that Schultz is a more competent director, VVD members wonder? It is striking that during this cabinet period, four state secretaries have already been able to take up their duties, compared to only one minister. And those who are still there are having a hard time, such as Martin van Rijn (Public Health) and Jetta Klijnsma (Social Affairs). It is no coincidence that they are responsible for implementing major reforms that this government has implemented.
Isn't the 'minister's assistant' by definition more likely to be ignored? “The State Secretary is a difficult figure,” says Anne Bos, researcher at the Center for Parliamentary History in Nijmegen. “His wallet can quickly be too light or too heavy.” Bos points out that coalition parties often protect important pawns in the cabinet more fiercely than a simple state secretary. “In the case of Mansveld, the cabinet can continue as usual.”

Load Date: October 30, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")