Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Douwe Dijkstra gets ideas for Heerlen
The Limburger
October 2, 2019 Wednesday
Heerlen


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 444 words
Byline: BY SIEBRAND VOS
Body


 CONFERENCE
HEERLEN/CHATTANOOGA
Douwe Dijkstra, chairman of Heerlen Mijn Stad, is in Tennessee this week to learn from four hundred other cities at a conference. "It's mainly about placemaking," says Dijkstra.
The third Placemaking Week is being held in Chattanooga, Tennessee; a conference in which delegates from four hundred cities participate. They all explain how they managed to make their city attractive again for residents and visitors, often after a period of stagnation or progressive decay.
 Heerlen My City
Heerlen is represented by Douwe Dijkstra, chairman of the Heerlen My City Center Organization. The Heerlen resident tells us over the telephone that he is completing a busy schedule. He himself is given half an hour to explain what Heerlen has done after the mine closures. "From the bigger story From black to green and Operation Heartbeat to smaller initiatives."
Placemaking is a methodology in which governments try to create a pleasant atmosphere and a more attractive environment together with residents and visitors, Dijkstra explains. "Consider, for example, the way in which the temporary city park in Schinkel-Zuid came about. But it also plays a role in new construction, sports and Cultura Nova: creating places where people like to come together."
Last year the Placemaking Week was in Amsterdam. Municipal officials spoke on behalf of Heerlen. "That apparently stimulated the lead expert of the organization so much that he invited me to tell the story from the perspective of an involved citizen."
Dijkstra knows that placemaking will play a greater role in the Netherlands from next year. “Then the new Environmental Act will come into effect. This explicitly states that, for example, a municipality may not simply allow new construction anywhere. In the start-up phase, the environment must be included in such a story and given the opportunity to make suggestions."
The placemaking aspect of the new law goes much further than making a plan available for inspection and giving citizens six weeks to object, knowing that the Council of State agrees with governments in the vast majority of cases.
 Street wise
The Placemaking Week comes from the organization that also organized the City Center Doctor project.
Two years ago, ten smaller European cities were explained, among other things, how the Streetwise agency in Heerlen, against the trend, manages to fill empty shop premises with new and young entrepreneurship.
Dijkstra: "I hope to gain ideas here in Chattanooga that Heerlen can use for the future."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 2, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")