Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Three hundred more homes due to departure from Rijn IJssel
The Gelderlander
April 22, 2021 Thursday


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 1
Length: 403 words
Byline: MARCO BOUMAN
Highlight: The move of a number of courses from ROC Rijn IJssel to the new Enka campus on the Vosdijk in Arnhem will create space for housing in three places in the city. Estimated around three hundred.
Body


A number of local residents fear losing 'unobstructed green views'
The homes should be built in the coming years on Zijpendaalseweg, Veluwestraat and Thorbeckestraat.

Before the end of the year, the ROC's creative MBO courses will be located on the campus on the former Akzo Nobel site, which previously bore the name Velpercampus. With this move, Rijn IJssel leaves behind buildings with an area of ​​approximately 50,000 square meters.

The municipality of Arnhem wants to use the space released at the site of the outdated school accommodation for additional housing. There is room for approximately 175 homes on Thorbeckestraat, 70 have been planned on Zijpendaalseweg and around 50 on Veluwestraat. This mainly concerns apartments. 30 percent of new construction must fall into the social rental category.

The municipality prefers 'special housing types', such as lifelong homes or other homes for which there is a great need in Arnhem. Councilor Cathelijne Bouwkamp also sees an opportunity to increase the flow on the housing market if people in the neighborhood move to new construction. Their current home would then become available for starters, for example. This should also be taken into account when planning.

Rijn IJssel itself owns the locations mentioned. The educational institution can now look for buyers under the conditions set by the municipality. It will take some time before construction can actually begin. After the sale, concrete plans will first have to be made. In addition, a new zoning plan must be drawn up for the three places.

In recent years, Rijn IJssel has spoken extensively with local residents about the future of the educational locations under the motto 'Good Neighbor'. "A good example of how we work in accordance with the new Environmental Act," says Alderman Bouwkamp. "By involving local residents in the plans at an early stage, there is a lot of support." The new law is expected to come into effect on January 1.

Despite these discussions, unrest has arisen in the Veluwestraat about the changes. The conditions are very broad, according to a number of local residents who have sought support from the municipal council by letter. They fear, among other things, for their 'unobstructed green view' because the houses are closer to the street than the school buildings. 'There is too much freedom for developers.'

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: April 21, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")