Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Clear: no jargon and a point more often
The Limburger
October 24, 2019 Thursday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 6
Length: 758 words
Byline: BY MAIKEL SUILEN
Body


 TO COMMUNICATE
ROERMOND
They are often incomprehensible, letters and forms from the government. The Direct Clear Brigade should help civil servants write clear texts.
Yesterday morning was the kick-off of the national campaign in Roermond.
In her early days as a civil servant in Roermond, she regularly received comments on her texts, says Sandra Franssen, who has since risen to head of the Strategy and Management department. Too many easy words. Too little use of jargon.
In short: not official enough. "And now I am working on making texts more understandable for our residents," says Franssen prior to the launch of the Direct Clear Brigade in the City Office in Roermond, a national campaign by the cabinet to make letters and forms from government agencies clearer. A club of a hundred language experts should help civil servants with this.
 Suitcase
They visit municipalities with a symbolic suitcase equipped with a USB stick.
It contains courses, tips for clearer language use and a list of alternative words for jargon. But the school marking work - marking with the red pen - is also part of the task package. These are necessary tools because employees often want to, but do not know how to create simple texts. They are often so deeply involved in the matter that translation is difficult, Franssen believes. The purpose of the campaign: to ensure that people simply understand what is in a letter. A group of around 2.5 million Dutch people, mainly people with low literacy, regularly have difficulty understanding government texts, according to State Secretary Raymond Knops of the Interior. “Some people no longer even open a letter if it has a certain logo on it, as a kind of denial. But if there is a reminder, then you will ultimately have a problem. Too many people still get into trouble this way."
Knops traveled to Roermond to kick off the project together with councilor Marianne Smitsmans. Knops, born in Hegelsom, kindly rejects the proposal to conduct the conversation in the Limburgish dialect.
With a wink: "It is possible, but then it is no longer immediately clear to everyone."
There are no figures on the number of registered municipalities, but as yet there is no Limburg that has signed the 'Direct Clear deal', as can be seen on a map on the website. For example, the municipality of Roermond has been working on the 'plain language' project for some time, a similar initiative. Knops: “Something like that fits in perfectly with this campaign. We especially want to draw attention to the problem and hope that the action will spread like wildfire across the country."
 Interface manager
He says he has made it a sport to correct incomprehensible texts in his department. For example, the vacancy for an 'Interface Manager for Strategic Management Organization for the Digital System of the Environment Act' raised quite a few eyebrows last weekend. “Incomprehensible. And at the same time we had a vacancy online for a secretary, with clear language and a clear description. So it can be done that way, I thought."
 LVK number
Further on, letters are being reviewed by members of the brigade at a few standing tables. “LVK number?
Any ideas?" is the rhetorical question. "Or here (pointing to the signature, ed.): Sales department.
So impersonal. They are often small things." Suzan Mohammed, who lives in Roermond, shows a letter with a few underlined words: references to Articles 6 and 7. "Something like that just makes it unnecessarily difficult. Meanwhile - I have lived in the Netherlands for 22 years - I understand most letters, but it remains difficult." For example, she had to go through a lot of forms to request special care for her disabled daughter. The difficult words and jargon in particular were a disaster, she says. “We asked neighbors to help and searched on the internet. But even then it often remains incomprehensible."
Tom Hessels from Oisterwijk experiences very different problems.
He is blind and has special software that reads texts.
But the voice of the program sometimes keeps rattling on due to the lengthy sentences. “At some point I lost track. My advice: put a period a little more often."
COMMENT? maikel.suilen@delimburger.nl
 We had a vacancy online for a secretary, with clear language and a clear description. So it can be done that way, I thought. Raymond Knops
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 24, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")