Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Sustainable residential area Susteren delayed
The Limburger
December 27, 2023 Wednesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: LOUERSVELD; Page 6
Length: 282 words
Body


The new sustainable neighborhood in Susteren, located between the Oude Rijksweg Noord, Louerstraat and N276, will be called Louersveld. The arrival of the district has now been somewhat delayed.
Initially, the intention was to bring the final plan into procedure this year, but that did not work out. “The housing plan must of course comply with the new Environmental Act. This requires a lot of consultation with various parties and therefore takes time. Further research is also currently being conducted into various sustainability aspects to make the district even more future-proof," says a spokeswoman for the municipality of Echt-Susteren.
Where previously it was always referred to as Middelveld III, the residential area has been given a new, definitive name: Louersveld, after the former Hof te Louw or Louerhof where important documents and agreements were signed in the past. "This court was on the border between Dieteren and Susteren. The new name therefore refers to a real piece of Zöster history."
The new residential area will have approximately 150 homes. Of these, 80 percent will consist of owner-occupied homes and the rest can be rented. The type of homes also varies, for example, both building plots and ready-made homes will be offered for sale, but social rental homes can also be found. Louersveld must also become a sustainable district. For example, no asphalt but natural materials are used for the roads and all houses have solar panels. There will also be a lot of greenery and trees and the option of reusing rainwater is being explored.
Louersveld: to the former Hof te Louw or Louerhof where important documents were signed in the past
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 26, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")