Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Everything in one big pile: go for the Environmental Act
The Limburger
January 4, 2024 Thursday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: POLLUX & VERDONSCHOT; Page 2
Length: 452 words
Body


That we still exist at all. For the same money, four days ago we would have been sucked into the biggest IT hole of all time, along with the entire country, buildings and all. Not that the danger has now passed. An 'accident in slow motion', one expert calls the brand new Environmental Act. Which contrasts rather poorly with a minister's praise: 'This law is a blessing for humanity'.
Critical government officials (who were quickly silenced) thought differently - the government is not at all ready for the law, it will be a disaster, all radar work will come to a standstill. The biggest danger according to the whistleblowers: the shaky digital structure behind the law, an IT colossus costing billions. "I'm holding my breath," said a professor this week. Because despite all objections, the Environmental Act has officially come into force since Monday.
(Almost) no one denies the problems. Even the minister basically says: it's going to be a mess, but it was already a mess, so, well. And see the benefits! Attention to sustainability, health. And above all: fewer rules. The Environmental Act makes life easier by lumping everything together. Great, because then as a citizen you only have to deal with one lot. Not nice: everything lands on that pile. Nicest example I came across: to get a permit for a flagpole you have to answer the question of how you are going to live in it. Funny, until you magnify such bugs to the complicated permit applications of complex industry, or to a country that is already dealing with a housing shortage and construction freezes.
And don't think: I have nothing to do with this. This law affects just about everything around you. Hence the showpiece of the law: the 'Environmental Desk', a digital door to that great hope. The good news is that ambientloket.overheid.nl has been working for four days. I zoomed in on my address and, really cool, saw at a glance what was going on in my neighborhood. A planned tree felling, including a report from the tree doctor who gave his approval after 'a visual inspection'. And very reassuring: no one in my street wants to start a brothel.
But has applying for a permit also become easier, as promised? Just click. I could choose from 278 activities. Had doubts about 'sailing a canoe' but opted for 'burning waste'. Within three seconds, really, I could download a real 'to-do list'. And believe it or not, point 3 was: 'start the work!' What, 'accident in slow motion'? Go the Environmental Act!
Until I read point 2. 'Ask the municipality if you need a permit for a waste incineration plant.' Yes, I can do it that way too. Even if you don't hear me complaining: we still exist, thank God.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 3, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")