Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=A merger of four municipalities is still a long way off
The Gelderlander
August 4, 2020 Tuesday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 730 words
Byline: BIANCA GOVERS
Highlight: The marriage between Wijchen and Druten is almost complete. The other two Meuse and Walloon municipalities remain, as it stands, only witnesses to this 'celebration'.
Body


LAND OF MAAS AND WAAL
A 'major' Meuse and Walloon merger is not possible yet. As long as possible, the majority of the political parties in West Maas and Waal en Beuning want to remain independent.

The chance that Druten and Wijchen will merge is increasing. Both municipal councils will make a decision in November. It is already clear that a majority of the Druten council will vote in favor. The largest Wijchen party, Kernachtig Wijchen, also recently announced that it is in favor of a merger. Preferably with Beuningen, West Maas and Waal and Heumen.

That wish will not come true for the time being. For the majority in West Maas and Waal en Beuningen, a merger is not necessary at the moment. "For us, the big question is: what will benefit our residents?" says Ronald Orlemans on behalf of the Federation of Village Lists, which accounts for ten of the seventeen seats in the municipal council of West Maas en Waal. "I tend to Although it has not been worked out, we are likely to deteriorate. In terms of surface area, we are the largest in Maas and Waal, but not if you look at the population numbers. Does it mean that we will soon have all the wind turbines?"

He also fears the financial consequences. West Maas en Waal has joint arrangements with municipalities in the Rivierenland region. "We tried to leave Avri. That would cost a fortune.”

In Beuningen, coalition parties Beuningen Nu & Morgen, GroenLinks, D66 and PvdA, which together have a majority in the council, agreed not to invest any energy in a possible merger over the next two years. “We have other things to do: housing, energy transition, environmental law and sheltered housing, to name a few. We have our hands full with that," said Hans Crezee, PvdA councilor.
No proof
Eric van Ewijk, councilor of BN&M, agrees. He also wonders whether a merger would yield more. "There is no evidence that a large municipality has more advantages. Moreover, we do not feel the mandate from our voters to decide on a merger."

If it were up to Jos Swartjes of SP Beuningen, it would remain as it is now. If the discussion turns to a merger, he wants to let the residents decide in a referendum.

There is a chance that the subject will appear on the agenda in Beuningen after the summer. Henk Plaizier, VVD councilor, will then come back to the mayor and aldermen. “We have experience with possibly merging with another municipality. That was Druten years ago. When that didn't happen, we agreed to remain independent. Times have changed. We will have a situation in which Beuningen threatens to be swallowed up by a large municipality of Druten and Wijchen."

He wonders whether that is good for Beuningen. "Let's not put ourselves in a position where we can't say anything anymore."

CDA Beuningen shares this opinion. “You have to seriously consider whether remaining independent remains an option, also in the future. We notice that it is becoming increasingly difficult," says Dave Preijers.

If West Maas en Waal can no longer offer the required quality, it is also clear to the CDA in that municipality: merge. “For example, if the financial situation becomes increasingly dire. Smaller municipalities will receive a smaller share from the municipal fund in the future," said councilor Frans van Gelder. "But first let Druten and Wijchen merge and work together."
Not powerful
In West Maas and Waal there are parties, albeit a minority, that would rather sit down with their 'neighbours' today than tomorrow. Willeke van Ooijen said he thought differently about it at first. But in recent years, the SP leader noticed that West Maas en Waal, as a small municipality, is not strong enough to remain independent. "We would like to see a collaboration or merger."

For Piet Donkers of Sociaal Maas en Waal there is no doubt. "There is now an opportunity to sit down with Druten and Wijchen, and West Maas and Waal should not miss it."

In his opinion, this merger has many advantages, such as an area with the same rules and more expertise in-house. "As a large municipality of Maas en Waal, you sit at the table of large municipalities such as Nijmegen and Apeldoorn. Then you have a voice, now we are dependent on the Rivierenland region. We are one of eight voices there. What does West Maas and Waal have with Culemborg?"
Means a merger
that we will soon get all the wind turbines?

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: August 3, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")