Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=A Minister for Digital Affairs is urgently needed
NRC
April 18, 2024 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 18
Length: 902 words
Byline: Onno Eric Blom

Alexander Klöpping
Body


ABSTRACT
Muddling through the government's outdated IT swamp is no longer responsible, write Onno Eric Blom and Alexander Klöpping.
COMPLETE TEXT:
For many politicians and administrators, the Benefits Affair was a rude wake-up call. The image that you are in good hands in the Netherlands if you become dependent on the government was shattered in just a few years. What appeared to be a gracious and social system often turned out in practice to be a bureaucracy that acted destructively. Partly because there was no longer a human touch in the logic of the system.
Anyone who thinks this is a one-off incident will be in for a rude awakening. As the parliamentary inquiry committee states in its final report: "The patterns that underlie this are still present. [...] Another scandal [could] happen again."
One of the patterns that the committee is talking about is the inadequate ICT systems that implementation organizations have to work with. The word ICT appears no fewer than 92 times in the committee's report, and not without reason: many victims could have been prevented with better ICT systems. For example, checking allowances sometimes took up to five years thanks to the outdated systems. Meanwhile, recoveries amounted to as much as a hundred thousand euros, resulting in devastated lives.
You may wonder how it is possible that ICT systems become so outdated that the government can no longer perform its most basic tasks. Here too the answer is: because there is no one in the cockpit.
ICT is still a free for all in the government, with different organizations within the government each following their own course. In practice, this leads to an ICT landscape with very outdated systems that cannot or hardly communicate with each other. Citizens and civil servants then sink into this fragmented swamp.
Solving this problem must start during formation. More control over the ICT file must be created as quickly as possible. Since 2022, we have had a State Secretary who, in addition to Kingdom Relations, also has Digitalization in her portfolio. That is a step in the right direction, but this position lacks the mandate to actually intervene where necessary.
That is why there must be a decisive Minister for Digital Affairs. This minister must be responsible for all large-scale IT in the government. All ministries and implementing organizations then submit their ICT plans to the minister for approval. In this way, he or she can promote cooperation between the various departments. Moreover, the minister can enforce that outdated infrastructure is modernized and protect departments against political pressure to postpone this. This will ultimately save the government a lot of money; the Tax Authorities alone spent almost 850 million in 2022 on keeping outdated systems running.
In addition, the minister can ensure that building new systems is less disastrous. Now the majority of major IT projects are running late, resulting in billions in additional costs. For example, the system behind the Environmental Act that went live at the beginning of this year cost a billion more than budgeted.
Research by expertise clubs such as the ICT Testing Advisory Board shows that this is because technology and output are often discussed far too late. As a result, it is only during the construction phase that ideas become technically unfeasible. In the hierarchical structure of the government, it is unthinkable that IT professionals would then send the draft back for revision. Instead, critical voices are often suppressed and silenced, and projects unnecessarily drag on for years.
A Minister for Digital Affairs, together with a team of ICT experts, can assess and approve new projects before they have even started. In this way we use the IT knowledge available in the government, learn from mistakes made in the past and save a lot of money.
The idea for a Minister for Digital Affairs is not new and has broad support from experts from within and outside the government. Other European countries, such as Denmark and Estonia, have already successfully created similar positions. There are therefore few measures that can better guarantee the digital rule of law, make the government more effective and at the same time save the public treasury so much money.
Muddling through the IT swamp is no longer responsible. Partly due to ICT backlogs, executives have become 14 percent less productive in the past few years and this creeping crisis only seems to be getting worse. If we don't do anything, we will continue to spiral from one affair to the next. It is up to the forming parties to tackle the underlying problem. That starts with a Minister for Digital Affairs. And if we may make a suggestion: for a change, do not choose a public administration expert or lawyer, but an IT professional with management experience.
Countries such as Denmark and Estonia have already successfully created similar positions
Onno Eric Blom is an entrepreneur and one of the initiators of 'Reprogramme the Government'. He graduated in political economy from Leiden University College.
Alexander Klöpping is a media entrepreneur. He founded the Blendle platform.
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Photo Getty Images

Load Date: April 17, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")