Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='I don't need a second chance just yet'
The Gelderlander
August 2, 2017 Wednesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 11
Length: 858 words
Byline: NIEK OPTEN
Highlight: De Gelderlander looks back this summer with people who were once in the news and then ended up in the shadows.
Body


Well, that was a long time ago
Co Verdaas resigned as State Secretary in 2012 after a month, haunted by an expense affair. Since then he has resigned from jobs as councilor and mayor. "You are so vulnerable in public administration."

It can change. For the same money, an outgoing State Secretary for Economic Affairs could now have been sitting at the café table in Lent, because things are not going smoothly with the formation of a new cabinet. Co Verdaas (50) has to chuckle at the idea. Then seriously: "It took three years before I no longer experienced any emotion when hearing the words 'State Secretary' and 'Economic Affairs.'" He is wearing a white T-shirt, jeans and cowboy boots. Soon he will have to go on stage as singer/guitarist of the hobby band John-Boy & The Waltons. Just like he has been doing in his spare time for twenty years.

Co Verdaas is doing well, actually better than ever, he says. He has a nice relationship, a beautiful new house along the Waal and he is more than pleased with his work as an advisor in all kinds of areas. He was therefore in doubt whether he would cooperate in an interview. “Because then everything will be stirred up again. At the same time, I also want to tell you what such an affair does to you. People are quick to judge, but be aware that there can often be another truth. As long as the facts are correct.'' Because he wants to be very clear in advance: the PVV's complaint against him has been dismissed by the Public Prosecution Service, partly because he has not been guilty of self-enrichment.

He comes from a working-class family in Brabant, his parents voted PvdA. After studying urban planning in Nijmegen, he went to work for a housing association in Zwolle. He had done some things for the PvdA when they sounded him out about a political career. "My relationship was over, I was at a crossroads in life: I thought, why not?" As a Member of Parliament (2003-2006), he was fairly invisible, he thinks. "Party members said 'you are so administratively minded'. That wasn't meant as a compliment, but that's how I took it. I got things done, with others.'' He became a deputy in Gelderland and State Secretary for Economic Affairs in 2012. Then things went wrong (see box).

“To be clear: I resigned myself. Mark Rutte and Diederik Samsom didn't try to stop me, but it was my own decision. That has been wrongly interpreted as an admission of guilt. Fact and fiction became intertwined. The PVV filed a complaint against me. Even if I were innocent, that does something to you."

After three months he had everything reasonably back in order, although he was afraid that he would no longer be able to find work. “I wondered: what can I really do? Over the last ten years my career has been on a fast track. Everyone thinks you're great because of your position. A lot has happened to me. I had to find myself again.'' A revelation was a job interview at Wageningen University. “The Public Prosecution Service still had to decide on the declaration. But there they said: we have looked at the file and we don't think there is anything wrong. It was not relevant to them.”

The PVV continued to pursue him, culminating in 2016 in a motion by that party in South Holland entitled 'Never again Co Verdaas'. The party wanted the Gelderlander never to do a job for the province again because of his 'dubious reputation'. “That was very strange. I tried to talk to them, but they didn't respond. When the Public Prosecution Service dismissed my case, they appealed. When that was rejected, they called the court 'that elite'. They cannot accept the separation of powers, they continue to believe in their own right. I think that's dangerous. It undermines confidence in the judiciary and public administration.”

Nowadays, Verdaas is active as chairman of the Mining Council, of the Wadden Sea Board, of the Provincial Environmental Policy Council and he works as an advisor at Over Morgen, where he has to prepare minds in the Netherlands for a new Environmental Act. "All nice jobs that I would have signed up for five years ago." Also all jobs in the shelter. “I could have been an alderman or acting mayor, even in large places. That's what I was asked for. But I don't want that. I now have my life in order again. But never say 'never'. If I do it again, it will be through a combination of a sense of duty, wanting to mean something and also a bit of vanity."

So at least he is back in the picture, also with his PvdA. In 2015 he was in seventeenth place for the Senate. Unelectable, but still. If anywhere drivers with a blemish are given a second chance, it is in Gelderland, thanks to King's Commissioner Clemens Cornielje. ,,Rightly so. If you want to get good people for public administration, that must be possible. You are so vulnerable. All you have to do is say someone is going to press charges against you and off you go.”
Fact and fiction became intertwined

View the original page: page 11

Graphic

 
Co Verdaas feels better than ever, five years after his departure as State Secretary.

Load Date: August 1, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")