Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=First asylum seeker removed from controversial emergency shelter in Epe within a week: 'Confused man'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 28, 2024 Thursday 07:56 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 419 words
Byline: Gep Leeflang
Body


Within a week of the opening of a controversial emergency shelter for up to 276 asylum seekers in the Fletcher hotel in Epe, a resident was removed due to 'an incident'. This became apparent on Thursday during an emergency hearing at the court, in which local residents and entrepreneurs demanded suspension of the permit granted last week.
The incident was alluded to several times during the hearing. Lawyer Suzanne Buitenkamp mentioned it to substantiate the unease that she believes is widespread in the area around the hotel.
Since the opening of the emergency shelter last Thursday, the presence of the asylum seekers has been clearly felt, she made it clear. “People walk from the hotel to the center of Epe, don't know where to go, ask for a lift and also take photos of homes. That gives an unsafe feeling," says Buitenhuis.
No police
“Yes, there has been an incident,” acknowledged COA lawyer Daniëlle Roelands. “But this was acted upon immediately. It is not strange that something like this happens when there are so many people in one place. No police were present."
After the incident was mentioned for the third time, the judge wanted to know what had happened. "It was an internal situation with a confused person," he was merely told. “It has now been moved.”
Are asylum seekers who take photos of homes near emergency shelters confronted? “As soon as we receive notification of this, we will do so,” said Roelands. Those words led to shaking of the heads from almost all local residents who attended the emergency hearing.
According to the municipality, the police have not received any reports of nuisance so far.
Damage claims
Some entrepreneurs in Epe joined the emergency procedure because they say they are experiencing damage due to the opening of the emergency shelter. For example, because there are suddenly no longer any hotel guests who spend money in their restaurant. They prepare damage claims. "The municipality did not take their interests into account at all when granting the permit," said lawyer Coert Kelkes. According to the Environmental Act, which came into effect in January, they can ask for 'disadvantage compensation'.
"If a catering entrepreneur suffers damage as a result of this decision, disadvantage compensation is available," said municipal lawyer Jan Hein Meijer. “And it will then be granted. However, that is not an issue in these proceedings."
The judge will announce within two weeks whether the permit will be suspended or maintained.

Load Date: March 28, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")