Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Centuries-old building traces reveal secrets of a half-timbered farm
The Limburger
January 7, 2022 Friday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 6, 7
Length: 706 words
Byline: René Willems
Body


Wiel Felder from Vijlen has received the very first thesis prize from the Dutch Construction History Foundation.
With his trained eye he has a half-timbered farm
in Harle's secrets.
He would have preferred to drill into the centuries-old beams of the truss and have the wood samples examined in the laboratory. "Then we would have really known when the De Plum farm in Harles was built," says Wiel Felder. But this time there was no money for that: "Each drilling costs 250 euros. And you need at least three drillings to be able to draw well-founded conclusions." That might be a bit too much for a study assignment."
Deeds of sale
Felder therefore has to make do with the visible construction traces that he found in the centuries-old square farmhouse in the hamlets of Vijlen. What material has been used? Which technique has been used? Can you perhaps see that a piece of wall has been added somewhere, so that this part must be of an even older date? "We know from sales deeds that there was a De Plum farm on this site as early as 1829," he explains. "But I am convinced that the oldest parts date from the seventeenth century."
Wiel Felder (50) is a caves and monuments specialist at the municipality of Valkenburg aan de Geul. In this position he will have to deal with requests for the renovation of monumental buildings. That is why he followed an additional HBO plus course in building history and restoration at the Utrecht University of Applied Sciences. He completed his studies with research into the building history of the De Plum farm, which was awarded the newly established thesis prize from the Netherlands Construction History Foundation.
1783
A few things are known about the De Plum farm, which is located near his own house in Vijlen. The facade of the barn shows the year 1783, so it was probably built then. The name of the farm already appears in a deed from 1628. However, that does not mean that this farm was already there at the time, Felder emphasizes: "It may well be that the farm was replaced by a new one later. To find out, you have to look for construction traces in the farm itself. What he immediately noticed during his first explorations of the building is that almost exclusively material from the immediate area was used for the farm. The wood for the trusses comes from trees from a nearby forest. On top of the bottom layer of local flint, hard enough to stop rising damp, Vijlene limestone can be seen. There is blue natural stone on the corners and near the stairs. Not from Namur, as was always thought, but from a quarry in Aachen.
The wickerwork with which the wooden framework is filled is made of hazel twigs - a shrub that still thrives in the fertile loess soil in the Heuvelland. "The branches are nice and flexible," says Felder. Loam and sand were used for the finishing, probably partly released during the excavation of the cellars under the farm. "Only the ironwork and glass were brought in from elsewhere," he concludes.
Fireplace
Felder believes that the insight into the construction history of the complex in Harles makes the De Plum farm even more interesting than it already was in itself. It is also something that can be taken into account during a possible renovation of the half-timbered house, he explains: "If you have to make a window somewhere to let in light, you should of course not do that in the place where the fireplace used to be. used to be. But then you obviously have to know where that fireplace was originally located."
'Insight into construction history facilitates applications for renovation'
Wiel Felder expects that insight into the construction history of monumental buildings will facilitate the assessment of applications for renovation.
The new Environmental Act states that municipalities can request a building history study when assessing building applications for special buildings.
"It is useful if you can judge for yourself whether a simple quick scan is sufficient, or whether a more in-depth investigation by experts is needed," Felder explains.
It is also good to draw the attention of applicants for such a permit at an early stage to special features in their building, he believes: "Then their architect can take this into account."
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 6, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")