Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The end of the noise is in sight, the director promises
The Gelderlander
December 21, 2022 Wednesday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2, 3
Length: 945 words
Byline: PETER DEURLOO
Highlight: The local residents who experience the sickening noise from the sand conveyor belt and the sand factories in the outer port near Winssen are fed up with it. But the problem is being solved. Says the director of Nederzand.
Body


Nederzand will replace all rollers on the conveyor belt at the sand extraction location and exchange the vibrating sieves for sand wheels
Peter Deurloo

Winssen/Beuningen

The sound of the conveyor belt in the Winssense sand extraction Geertjesgolf. It drives them crazy. The low-frequency noise of the sand factories floating in the outer harbour. They get sick from the vibrations.

"The conveyor belt makes a lot of noise," says Bas ten Buren. He says he speaks on behalf of 25 households. "Nederzand has replaced the wheel bearings on part of the belt, but not everywhere. The low-frequency noise, not audible, but tangible as vibration, is still there. Although there is less nuisance."

According to Ten Buren and his colleague Peter Verweij, the Nederzand desanders combination has promised to put an end to the nuisance, but that does not happen. Part of the conveyor belt is shielded with long rubber mats to prevent the noise from spreading. "If that tire is tackled, 70 percent of the nuisance will be solved. But Nederzand refuses to replace all the rollers that set the belt in motion and pack the belt everywhere."

They believe that the part of the belt in particular where it crosses the road, towards the classification installations in the outer port, should be wrapped. At the two floating factories, the sand is cleared of excess water and processed before it enters the Waal in transport ships. This creates low-frequency noise.

"It's an ordinary money issue," says an angry Verweij. "They make a profit of millions, but they just don't want to pay this. We've been in the middle of a lot of noise for a year and a half." The local residents do not feel taken seriously by Nederzand and the municipality of Beuningen. According to them, they only look at the standards for nuisance, which the company stays within, but not at the nuisance actually experienced.
Better after Christmas
Herman van der Linde, the boss of Nederzand, says that things will be a lot better after Christmas. Eventually, he says, it will become quiet. He drives along the conveyor belt. He stops regularly. ,,NB. Here you hear the noise, which is indeed unacceptable. We are really disappointed about that." A few meters further on, the conveyor belt is completely silent. "The rollers that were making noise have been replaced by a different type of rollers. They are quiet."

6,500 of the 23,000 rolls have now been replaced. Another 2,000 will be added these days. "Then we are at about a third." Ultimately, all rollers will be of the new type. Van der Linde cannot have all the required rollers delivered at once, this is done in portions. And assembly takes time. The rollers are more than twice as expensive. That should be the case, says Van der Linde. He wants to keep his promise of a quiet future. "All roles will be replaced in six months."

The conveyor belt is a new system that prevents a traffic jam of trucks with sand towards the Waal. According to Nederzand, the noisy rollers were an unforeseeable setback. Today's operation will cost 'several millions' extra.

The low-frequency noise from the classification systems is a known problem. "We also had that with sand extraction Over the Maas in Alphen," says Van der Linde. "But there were hardly any complaints there. This is mainly because the factories there kept moving from place to place. Here they are fixed. We have I moved one installation a bit, but that didn't help."

"The cups dance in people's cupboards," says Verweij about that low-frequency sound. "It gets under your skin."

During the Christmas holidays, the vibrating sieves that vibrate the water from the sand in the classification factories are therefore replaced by so-called sand wheels. The vibrating sieves cause the low-frequency noise. The wheels don't produce that sound. They scoop up the sand and slowly rotate it so that the water can drain out.

Van der Linde thinks that the shaking will then be over. The water wheels are a proven method and they are being installed now that work has been halted for a few weeks. “The people are really right. We understand the complaints."

However, he doubts whether it is a good idea to cover the conveyor belt with rubber mats everywhere, including where it crosses the road. The local residents want that. However, experts have warned Nederzand that the wrapped tape can then work as a sound box. The local residents don't believe it.

"We are taking the measures step by step, so that we know what works and what does not work to eliminate noise," says Van der Linde. "We suspect that the noise pollution now comes from the classification systems and not so much from the belt." If the noise continues after installation of the sand wheels, the tire may require further wrapping.

Councilor Sijmen Versluijs (spatial planning, environmental law) is accused of a lack of empathy by local residents. He does not recognize himself in that image.

Versluijs says that good agreements were made with Nederzand in September. “They are very busy trying to solve it. We will measure noise again in February. This is done in consultation with local residents so that measurements are taken at places and times that they agree with."

Ten Buren and Verweij are not happy about it. "Nederzand is already on a charm offensive with the municipality to continue with the desilting for another fifteen years." The councilor denies this. Van der Linde also swears that it is not the case. "After ten years it is over Then there is no more sand to extract."
The people are really right. We understand the complaints
They make a profit of millions, but they just don't want to pay this

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Load Date: December 20, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")