Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Eindhoven's wood-burning ban seems pointless if enforcement is not really possible: 'It is just very difficult'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 29, 2024 Thursday 11:40 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 622 words
Byline: Ad de Koning
Body


EINDHOVEN - What can you do as a municipality to reduce the nuisance caused by wood burning? Does a ban, as is now being suggested in Eindhoven, make sense? And is such a ban even possible? Four questions and answers.
This week, experts talked to the Eindhoven city council about air quality in the city, the role of wood burning and the impact on health. This happened at the initiative of the Party for the Animals, GroenLinks and D66, who no longer rule out a ban on burning stoves.
The fact that the problem also occurs in Eindhoven became clear from the story of Viola van Alphen. As a severe asthma patient, she is very bothered by her neighbors' pellet stove.
1. How big is the influence of wood burning on air quality?
Wood burning by private individuals in the Netherlands contributes approximately 25 percent to the total particulate matter emissions, TNO has calculated. When it comes to the impact that air quality has on health, 14 percent is due to wood burning. By comparison: road traffic 'provides' a share of 32 percent, while industry and agriculture together provide 23 percent.
The precise share of wood combustion in air quality as a whole is difficult to indicate, according to environmental advisor Henri van der Velden of the municipality of Eindhoven. "Think of it as a large gray blanket that moves over the city and is influenced by several factors. Not only due to things such as road traffic and wood burning, but also due to atmospheric influences.”
2. How big is the problem in Eindhoven?
When measuring air quality, a distinction is made between three important values: nitrogen oxide (NOx), coarse particulate matter (PM10) and fine particulate matter (PM2.5). Measurements by the GGD show that road traffic in Eindhoven is responsible for almost two-thirds of nitrogen dioxide and coarse particulate matter emissions. About 25 percent of the share of fine particulate matter in emissions in Eindhoven is due to wood burning and fireworks.
With particulate matter, the smaller the particles, the deeper they enter your lungs and the greater the risk of health damage. GGD figures also show that the percentage of all asthma cases in children caused by air pollution (nitrogen dioxide) in Eindhoven is 23 percent, while that percentage across Brabant is 20 percent.
3. What can a municipality do to limit nuisance as much as possible?
What can help is to join the national Clean Air Agreement, in which agreements are laid down. Eindhoven did this in 2020. Because burning wood is not prohibited, it is also difficult for the municipality to take action in the event of nuisance. Van der Velden: “As a municipality you are up against the rules of the Building Decree, so in practice enforcement is now in fact not possible.”
Eindhoven is working on an action plan, with measures that are possible and could have an effect. Better information, for example, or encouraging the remediation of old heating channels. The new Environmental Act that came into effect this year does offer options for local rules. These can be included in the environmental plan. “But that law is still being developed. There are no 'hard examples' yet of rules that work.”
4. What if you still want to burn wood?
“I'd rather not, but if you want to do it anyway, do it consciously,” says GGD advisor Marieke van Ballegooij. “Ensure good ventilation, install a CO and smoke detector, have the chimney thoroughly swept at least once a year and follow the advice of the Stookwijzer,” she gives as tips. The Viola van Alphenr is an advisory website of the central government on which a map shows whether or not heating is possible.

Load Date: April 28, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")