Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Eindhoven wants to speed up Vonderpark Kwartier and - finally - construction of Victoria Park: 'This has taken far too long'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 18, 2023 Monday 07:02 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 561 words
Byline: Rob Burg
Body


EINDHOVEN - The neighborhood has been waiting for it for ten to fifteen years and some no longer believed in it. But according to councilor Stijn Steenbakkers, construction of the Victoria Park can finally start in April or May 2024.
Part of that plan is also to raise the Gender river above ground and to place the statue of Gerard Philips that still stands in the Gloeilampplantsoen at Strijp-T. Construction of the park will take six to nine months.
That park, located between Vonderweg, Emmasingel and Willemstraat, is part of the development of the 'Emmasingel quadrant'. Part of this is the Vonderpark Kwartier: new construction on the site of the old carcass that determined the image of the Vonderweg for years. There will soon be 625 homes here, spread over six buildings.
The draft zoning plan will be available for inspection for six weeks from Thursday. If there are not too many setbacks, few objections are submitted and an agreement can be reached quickly with developer Breevast, Steenbakkers expects that construction can start at the end of 2024. The residential towers will be 30 and 67 meters high. The plan also includes space for a basement car park, catering and shops.
Read more below the illustration
According to Steenbakkers, the standards for affordable housing are met: "Thirty percent will be social rental, fifty percent mid-range rental." The councilor is happy that things are coming to an end: "This has gone on for far too long."
According to him, the reason for making a new draft zoning plan available for inspection before the end of the year has everything to do with the current legislation. “The Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1 and that could cause delays due to the many uncertainties and ambiguities that still exist about the new law.”
He is still cautious about starting construction in 2024: "We are not there yet, these are difficult times to build, but this represents a few nice steps forward."
Phase four of Strijp-S
In tonight's council meeting, the zoning plan for another large housing project in Eindhoven will be hammered out: phase 4 - the last - of Strijp-S. This provides for the construction of 1,480 homes. To this end, old Philips buildings, including the colossus that is still used by Bosch and the Microlab, are being converted into homes. There will also be new residential towers.
An earlier plan for this part of Strijp-S has been adjusted, allowing the new towers to be built to be higher. Previously, buildings were calculated to be between 52 and 74 meters high, but this will now be between 77 and 94 meters. “We have to go higher to enable the construction of as many homes as possible,” is Steenbakkers' explanation. Where there was room for 1,100 homes in the old plan, there are now 1,480.
Strijp's Bultje
It is the final phase of Strijp-S; the last 6 of the 27 hectares. According to Steenbakkers, there will also be more room for families in the new building. “And it is not only the oat milk and cappuccino drinking young people that you still see here.”
In the long term, Strijp-S must become more of a unity with surrounding neighborhoods, such as the Lijsterbesbuurt and Strijp-T. Research is being conducted into, among other things, the Strijps Bultje. Steenbakkers does not rule out that the higher part of the ring road will be at ground level or sunken in the future.

Load Date: December 19, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")