Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Elderveld in action against 'illegal' tree felling
The Gelderlander
December 10, 2019 Tuesday


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 427 words
Byline: HARRY VAN DER PLOEG
Highlight: Residents of the Arnhem Elderveld district have cordoned off a forest plot on the Wassenaarweg with tape in the hope of preventing 'illegal logging'. The trees must be removed from the municipality for the construction of a shelter for victims of domestic violence.
Body


The neighborhood fears a recurrence of the controversial felling of a group of trees on the Leidenweg, about 100 meters away. The trees there were abruptly felled last week for a construction plan for homes for the elderly who want to live independently for longer. A lot of wood was quickly put through a chipper.

"Our civil rights are being violated," says local resident Chantal Kappen. "The municipality has put a green contractor to work to remove the trees, while no environmental permit and building permit have yet been issued. Objections could still be made to the felling permit. A tree plan is now being discussed in the municipal council. A day before those discussions started, the municipality had 1,000 square meters of trees felled."

Resident Carolien van der Waard also believes that the municipality has violated rules. "A report stated that the felling had to be done carefully. The animals in the bush had to be given the opportunity to escape. But there was no escape. I think everything went through the shredder alive."

Most wood remains have already been removed.

The spokesperson for councilor Cathelijne Bouwkamp (Green, Spatial Planning and Environmental Act) acknowledges that the municipality has made mistakes. "Here we have indeed been working very expeditiously when it comes to felling the trees."

He does indicate that the greenery had to make way for the rental properties in the social sector for the elderly. He adds that no felling permit was required to fell these trees. "They do not enjoy monumental status or protection under the zoning plan," says the spokesperson. "The land also has no green designation. It is a construction location for offices or social facilities."

SP faction leader Gerrie Elfrink points out that the construction plan has not yet been discussed by the municipal council. He therefore calls the hood 'a bizarre state of affairs' and demands clarification from councilor Bouwkamp. He wants to raise the issue in the city council tomorrow evening.

The residents have started a signature campaign to prevent the felling of trees for the arrival of an Oranjehuis (a modern version of a 'stay-away house') from Moviera. They point out that there is also an alternative that does not require a felling: an 'unused building area' at the Zuidpoort business complex at Wassenaarweg 40. The municipality has rejected this offer from a project developer.
Residents have started a signature campaign against the felling

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: December 9, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")