Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Better protect heritage
The Limburger
June 19, 2021 Saturday
HeerlenKL


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 11
Length: 539 words
Byline: René Willems
Body


The 289 national monuments in Gulpen-Wittem are legally protected against demolition or mutilation. But there is much more cultural heritage and that also deserves attention.
The cultural heritage includes castles, churches and beautiful square farms. But also typical Limburg landscape elements that are man-made, such as graves and sunken roads. And even age-old traditions such as bronk and shooting festivals can be classified under this heading, explains Ralf Defaux of the municipality.
Gulpen-Wittem is blessed with a rich offer in that regard, notes councilor Jos Last. With 289 national monuments, the municipality is in the top forty of the Netherlands. And that's just the tip of the iceberg, adds Luuk Keunen of consultancy firm RAAP: there are also many buildings that could be designated as provincial or municipal monuments. In the new Environmental Act, which will come into effect in the middle of next year, municipalities must determine how they want to maintain their cultural heritage. To a certain extent they can decide for themselves how far they will go. Because no matter how beautiful historic buildings and places are, preserving them costs money. So the question is actually what all that beauty is worth to them.
During a council conference, Gulpen-Wittem got council and citizen members thinking about that difficult dilemma. The question of whether the cultural heritage in the municipality deserves protection was answered unanimously with 'yes'. But does that mean that, in addition to national monuments, there should also be a list of municipal monuments? The council and citizen members hesitate. "Then you should first have some insight into the consequences of this," says Frans Derksen (Balans faction). For the municipality, but certainly also for the owners and residents of those buildings.
According to Jack Cremers (PRO Gulpen-Wittem faction), himself the proud owner of a national monument in Eys, these consequences are not too bad: "I received full cooperation from the National Service in Zeist for the renovation of my building." Roger Cratsborn (CDA ), who lives in the protected village of Schweiberg, can confirm that. But still...
It becomes even more difficult when it comes to intangible heritage. Cows in the meadow, for example, or sheep on the heath. These also largely determine the charm of the Heuvelland. But traditions can only be protected if they can be directly linked to a building, Keunen warns, such as the distillery of a Limburg syrup maker or the beer boilers of a brewer.
On that point, landscape management may offer a solution, expects Sacha Vos (PRO): "If we want to preserve the sheep herd of Eperheide, we must prevent areas from being mowed bare with large machines." And if you want to preserve sunken roads, you must you don't rush through it with increasingly larger agricultural vehicles, says Derksen.
After the introduction of the Environmental Act, the municipalities have another seven years to further develop and, if necessary, adjust their policy on this point. Take that time, councilor Jos Last (Balans) asks the council: "These are matters that have existed for hundreds, and sometimes even thousands of years. Don't let that go to waste because of a few, I would almost say miserly, cents."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 6, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")