Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='There is a class struggle going on at the campsite'
The Gelderlander
January 17, 2024 Wednesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 10, 11
Length: 1970 words
Highlight: Affordable campsites for 'the common man' are rapidly disappearing, now that investors are willing to pay big money. For regular guests with their own mobile home it usually means the end of the story. That creates emotions. Also with (ex-)owners, such as Gerrit and Ellen Leunk. After fifty years they sold their campsite in Warnsveld. "The classic campsite no longer has a future."
Body


Regular guests must leave the campsite after the sale
Paolo Laconi

Warnsveld

For ten years, Manuela de Muijnck (50) drove with her children from Zeewolde to Camping Warnsveld every weekend and school holiday during the camping season. Since 2013 she has had her own mobile home on a permanent annual pitch. The casual atmosphere and green surroundings attracted her like a magnet. From the campsite she walked straight into the forest. "It was a paradise in the summer."

That paradise only exists in her memory. Camping Warnsveld was sold at the end of November to Yoko Village, a company that wants to turn the 4-hectare site into an 'ecovillage and resort', where visitors participate in yoga and ecstatic dance and relax in hot tubs. There is no longer room for De Muijnck and her daughters.

Just like sixty other regular guests who have sometimes been at the campsite for decades. Their mobile homes are being replaced by luxury ecolodges and glamping tents for rental. "When it became known that the campsite would be sold, it soon became apparent that the new owner had no place for us," says De Muijnck. "That hit us hard. We had a terrible time."

Tears flowed. Many left quietly. However, about fifteen guests do not accept the forced departure. They have united in the Recreational Law action group Camping Warnsveld and are threatening legal action against Yoko Village, which initially gave regular guests until December 31 to remove their mobile home. "We cannot stop sales, we have to accept that," says De Muijnck. "We are fighting for more time and do not want to incur costs due to the forced departure."
Bought up by chains
De Muijnck's situation is not an isolated one. Campsites are increasingly being bought up by chains such as Roompot and EuroParcs. Foreign investors also have their sights set on the Netherlands. The result? The classic campsite is under pressure. Annual pitches for regular guests with their own mobile home will disappear and be replaced by luxury houses for rental. Capfun, a French company with 120 campsites, mainly in France, now owns twenty campsites in the Netherlands, including in Doesburg, Winterswijk and Appeltern. "The number of takeovers is going fast, but we are only at the beginning," says Hans van Leeuwen, trend watcher and recreation expert at consultancy firm Pleisureworld from Elst, Gelderland. "Approximately 50 campsites have been taken over in the past five years, but don't be surprised. if another 150 are bought over the next five years. The more holiday parks you have, the better you can reduce costs, for example through joint purchasing. You can also use internet marketing more effectively to attract customers to your holiday parks."

According to Van Leeuwen, climate change is another reason why foreign companies come to the Netherlands. The weather conditions in holiday countries such as Italy, Spain and France are becoming more extreme. "Look at last summer, when southern Europe was ravaged by floods and heat waves and campsites around Lake Garda were hit by hailstones the size of tennis balls."

A growing group of Dutch people are therefore choosing to holiday in their own country. Van Leeuwen: “The Capfuns of this world see plenty of opportunities in our country. Moreover, the facilities at Dutch campsites are often excellent. Outdoor and indoor swimming pools, indoor play facilities, fitness rooms and bowling alleys. That makes them extra attractive for takeover."
Baked pears
In the meantime, De Muijnck is stuck with the problem. Her forced departure from Camping Warnsveld presented her with a problem. She is a single mother and has a limited budget. Then find a campsite with an affordable annual pitch. "I've been looking for months. Annual places are scarce and often so expensive that I cannot afford it."

Recently it worked. She found a spot in Ees, Drenthe. It is more expensive than in Warnsveld, but still just affordable for De Muijnck. Still, the move is costing her. “I had to get rid of my mobile home in Warnsveld. He was 25 years old and was not allowed by the campsite owner in Drenthe. I have now bought a caravan that is already there, also an old one. I have to build a new one within two years. Hopefully that will work, but there is a chance that it will end for me in two years."

SP Member of Parliament Sandra Beckerman sees that there are more people in the same boat as De Muijnck. Affordable campsites are becoming scarce. She submitted the initiative memorandum 'Save the campsite', which will soon be discussed by the House of Representatives. "I hear a lot of harrowing stories," says Beckerman. "People who have been at a campsite for decades and suddenly have to leave because their campsite is being taken over."

Affordable recreation for 'the common man' is becoming increasingly difficult, Beckerman sees. "There is a kind of class struggle going on at the campsite. Big capital is taking over the classic campsites and turning them into luxury holiday parks, with houses that are rented out for a lot of money. Regular guests are not doing well, which is worrying."

In her initiative memorandum, the SP advocates better protection of recreationalists. The purchase of campsites by 'predatory investors' must also stop. "The government wants us to fly less and go on holiday close to home. It is made impossible for the people who have been doing this for years."

Research commissioned by the House of Representatives shows that there are approximately 119,000 annual pitches for permanent guests at 961 Dutch campsites. That is more than four thousand fewer than five years ago. It is expected that another five thousand annual places will disappear in the next five years. The researchers also note that people who lose their annual place find it more difficult to find a new one.
Rental chalets
Marcel Tap of trade association for recreation companies Hiswa-Recron sees that holiday needs are changing. Interest in short holidays, spread throughout the year, is growing rapidly. “Holiday parks respond to this. After a takeover, dozens, sometimes even hundreds, of rental chalets are often placed. Mass is cash register."

The rental of holiday homes is economically interesting for recreational entrepreneurs. "Prices for an annual pitch vary from 2,000 euros in the Northern Netherlands to more than 4,000 euros on the coast," Tap explains. "The proceeds from chalet rental are ten times this. It is much more lucrative."

For years, Dutch campsites were difficult to sell. Tap knows entrepreneurs who had to struggle until the age of 80 due to the lack of successors. That's different nowadays. Large holiday parks from home and abroad are queuing up. "When campsite owners get older and get a nice offer, the choice is usually not that difficult. With the sale they secure their pension."

Gerrit (70) and Ellen (66) Leunk experienced this up close. The couple ran Camping Warnsveld for fifty years, until the two sold their life's work to Yoko Village a month and a half ago for 2.3 million euros. "My parents once started this campsite," says Gerrit. "When my father became ill in 1973, we continued the business. That was expected of us at that time. We also liked it, you know. Otherwise we would have didn't last that long."

The 70s and 80s were booming. In the summer the campsite was crowded. About eighty children took part in the Easter egg hunt. Ellen; “We had two to three activities every day. Children's games, hexathlons, bingo, the cleverest man. There was a lot of enthusiasm for it."

After the good years, a turnaround followed. When flying holidays to the sun became cheaper, they noticed this immediately. Fewer and fewer people found their way to their campsite, although a loyal group continued to return every year. "Due to competition with abroad and increasing regulatory pressure, it became increasingly difficult for us," says Ellen. "The last few years have not been great. We chose to keep prices low, so that we remained an affordable campsite. But there were the facilities are also: neat, but simple."
Approaching retirement
Ten years ago, the two started thinking about their impending retirement. Their two daughters were not interested in continuing the business and potential buyers were not interested in a simple campsite. Gerrit: “We were advised to wait until the new Environmental Act was in place. This gives recreational entrepreneurs more options. We did that. When we put our campsite up for sale, there was interest. Eleven candidates have registered."

There was not a single party that wanted to continue their classic camping. They were all investors who wanted to build houses for rental. "Running a simple campsite is a chore," says Ellen. "The revenue model simply no longer works, however unfortunate that is."

The deal was completed on November 24. The new owner Yoko Village sent the regular guests an email stating that they had to remove their mobile home from the site before the end of the year. It caused emotions. Some refuse to leave. Ellen; “We understand those emotions. Of course it is annoying, especially if you have been camping here for years. On the other hand: what should we do? Continue until we die? It had been known for years that we would sell the campsite. Preferably to a party that would continue the campsite, but that is not possible in the current market."
Desolate
At the beginning of January, the former campsite looks desolate. Most of the sixty mobile homes have been removed. Often bought by traders. One was demolished on the spot. It gives a surreal image. At this place, where camping guests enjoyed their holidays for over sixty years, the empty plots are now particularly striking. A refrigerator and stacked plastic garden chairs are silent indications that a mobile home once stood here.

At the barrier, a mobile home is lifted onto a truck, ready for transport to a new destination. Simeon van der Swan sees it. He has been hired by Yoko Village as a project manager. "A small group is still refusing to leave and remove their mobile home. I will talk to these people. We are working on a solution that both parties are satisfied with. Perhaps we can buy the mobile homes so that they no longer have to worry about them."

The strict deadline (all mobile homes should have been removed by the end of 2023) is being handled leniently. Van der Swan: “The weather conditions didn't help. It rained so much that transporters could not enter the site with their trucks. We give people more time."

The idea that they will no longer run a campsite after fifty years is slowly sinking in for Gerrit and Ellen. When the season starts again, this awareness will only grow, Gerrit expects. “There was always a lot of work to do. Preparing the canteen and toilets, maintaining the greenery, so that the campsite looked tip-top. It will feel strange that we don't have to do all that anymore."
Melancholy and relief
They think back with nostalgia to all those wonderful years. The memories are many. But there is also a feeling of relief. It didn't look like it for a long time, but in the end they were able to sell their company well. "We will retire without any worries," says Ellen.

What are they going to do with their free time? "On the road with the camper," says Gerrit with a broad smile. "For fifty years we could not go on holiday in the summer and we were available 24 hours a day for our guests. Now we are going to experience what it is like at someone else's campsite. pleases."
It hit us hard. We had a terrible time
The number of campsite takeovers is increasing rapidly, yet we are only at the beginning

View the original page: page 10, page 11

Load Date: January 16, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")