Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=According to lawyer, Etten-Leur leaves residents 'in the cold' with their water damage: 'You can't do that'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 5, 2024 Friday 05:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 440 words
Byline: Hélène Schenk
Body


ETTEN-LEUR - Residents of Kerkstraat in Etten-Leur are struggling with water damage. According to the municipality, they must prove that the damage was caused by construction work in the area. But that is too simplistic, says lawyer Mark van Weeren: "You cannot fob off concerned citizens in this way."
The Leefbaar faction reported the problems in Kerkstraat in questions to B and W. Most residents have lived there for more than twenty years without any problems, but since the construction of the Van Bergen Park they have been bothered by water, noise and vibrations due to construction and demolition work.
"Are residents who are adjacent to the construction of a new residential area responsible for an excess of groundwater in their crawl spaces and basements?" Clasien de Regt wanted to know on behalf of Leefbaar. Or could they leave the bill to the municipality or the contractor?
The answers to those questions show that the municipality is putting the ball in the residents' court. There is 'historically' a lot of rain and yes, there is construction in the area. But, the municipality says: 'Everything that takes place in the plan is aimed at not causing flooding in the immediate area.'
And that is apparently what Kerkstraat has to do. "Residents must prove themselves that the damage occurred as a result of the construction," the municipality said. And once liability has been established, “one can file a claim.”
Amsterdam lawyer Mark van Weeren, specialist in liability law, confirms that property owners must ensure that the roof and basement are waterproof. But under the Environmental Act, the municipality must ensure that the groundwater is properly regulated and does not cause any nuisance.
Most far-reaching step
Van Weeren: "The question is: is the damage to the homes caused by the heavy rain or by the new construction? This is difficult for the residents themselves to demonstrate. Actually not, even. The municipality should not push those people away, but check how the contractor disposes of the groundwater that he extracts from the soil to keep the construction pit dry.”
"I hear it in several municipalities that in case of water damage, people point to the extreme weather conditions, for which municipalities are currently not liable. At least: not yet. You can do that once, but not if extreme precipitation becomes normal. Then you have to take measures to ensure that groundwater is better regulated.”
In the most extreme case, the lawyer advises, residents can submit an enforcement request: "Then the municipality must investigate whether the contractor is complying with the permit and what is causing the damage. That is the most far-reaching step,” says Van Weeren.

Load Date: April 5, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")