Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Europe, including the Netherlands, is becoming increasingly cluttered, even a blind person can see that'
The Limburger
July 17, 2021 Saturday
entire editionVenloVenrayRoermondWTMaastrichtSittard-GeleenHeerlenKL


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 45, 43, 44
Length: 1993 words
Byline: Joos Philippens Photo Peter Schols
Body


Nico Nelissen is almost eighty, but continues to fight relentlessly for good architecture and urban planning. In his latest publication 'The city as an open book', the Maastricht professor emeritus looks back on half a century of studying cities. He is critical. "Aldermen often rave about city gurus, without having read their books."
As an urban sociologist and public administration expert, you have been studying cities for fifty years. How did that fascination arise?
“In Maastricht you are raised with the beauty of the city from childhood. As a sociologist, I focus on the city as a living organism. Many people have a static image of it. In Delft I ask students from the City Developer master's program to draw a city. They come up with an outdated image from the fifteenth century: walls, city gates, corner towers, churches and a town hall, set in a vast landscape. Cities have of course long been surrounded by industrial estates and large-scale infrastructure. Cities such as Paris and London have been surpassed in terms of population by, for example, New Delhi, Guangzhou and Manila, each with more than twenty million inhabitants. We know the images: that one old house in China surrounded by encroaching massive high-rise buildings; In Mexico City and Cape Town you drive through slums for one or two hours before you reach the prosperous city center, the chaos of the city is recognizable in African Lagos. But also: the fully constructed Dubai. The city is perhaps man's most important invention. Cities have existed for five thousand years, but the speed and intensity of their growth is from the last two centuries. The majority of the world's population will soon live in gigantic metropolises. You see that the regimes in emerging countries are fascinated by gigantic high-rise buildings and shiny glass facades. They pay little or no attention to local traditions, but to what is 'in' globally. It's a battle for who has the tallest and most impressive tower."
Just like the rulers of the past. Ironically, the regimes look for examples from their former colonists. Take Ivory Coast, where the president built a completely new capital with a copy of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome.
“That happens in history on a large and small scale. The former Dutch colonies have many buildings that have the characteristic style of the mother country. This applies not only to the Dutch, but also to the French and English colonies. Today a proto-international style is popular. This means that the high-profile buildings are designed by star architects."
In your book you conclude, among other things, that cities differ so much that there are no universal solutions or magical formulas. Does that confuse you?
“Anyone who looks at cities in a nuanced way sees that cities are personalities with their own appearance, atmosphere, character and problems. Because we have been taught that we can control development administratively, some are surprised that there are no simple, one-size-fits-all solutions. Cities are often unguided missiles, over which (local) governments can only exert limited influence."
Are cities becoming increasingly 'worse' as a result?
“I can make a statement about the Netherlands. Here neoliberalism leaves everything to the market. Entire municipal urban planning departments have been reorganized. Civil servants have become plan supervisors. The concrete design of cities has been outsourced to the free market. Cities are increasingly investment objects, real estate empires spread their risks by buying up properties. They divide buildings and earn money in this way. The most expensive apartments are pure investment objects; they are hardly inhabited. There are often no lights on. Bad for the quality of life."
You call cities mirrors of society?
“Since local government control is decreasing, market parties, administrators and citizens are sitting together on a projectile that moves at great speed. They frantically turn knobs to guide this in what they think is the right direction. In this battlefield in which commerce appears to be very important, it is not easy to pay sufficient attention to matters that are difficult to quantify, such as historical context and aesthetics. Long-term vision is often lacking. A collective nightmare looms."
What Do You Mean By That?
“Attention to spatial quality continues to decline. In the past you had regents, mayoral families with great power. In the 1970s, councilors such as John Wevers in Maastricht, Max van den Berg in Groningen and Adri Duivesteijn in The Hague emerged. They knew what they wanted and set clear guidelines. That healthy virus of political, administrative ambition seems to be supplanted by bureaucratic navel-gazing."
Can the current directors really not be able to do it anymore?
"City authorities are under pressure due to limited finances, often have insufficient authority and are entangled in their own political-administrative system. Politicians often see being an alderman as a nice career step. They no longer read books, only official notes the size of an A4 sheet. They often rave about city gurus who pretend to come up with the solution without having read their books. Real substantive knowledge is lacking. We need professional councilors again, with passion and knowledge. It is the search for the sheep with five legs."
Yet the government is not completely passive. It keeps cars out of inner cities, making them more attractive as a place to live.
"It leads to mass tourism. Worse than residents' cars are the numerous tourist modes of transport that threaten historic city centers. Who is happy with the overdose of tourist trains, horse-drawn carriages, scooters, Segways, loan bicycles, scooters, and so on? Residents are increasingly experiencing inconvenience from its excesses. Think of the critical voices from Venice, Barcelona and Amsterdam."
In your book you debate with a number of urban gurus, such as the geographer Richard Florida, who was a worldwide fan at the beginning of this century. He believed that cities could be saved from the doldrums by encouraging the arrival of the creative class.
"Apart from the fact that it was never clear who did and did not belong to that creative class, he concludes exactly the opposite in his most recent publication The New Urban Crisis. The arrival of the creative class has only increased gentrification and segregation in the cities. The enormous contradiction between extremely social rent and homes costing more than €500,000 is a new urban crisis."
Can this tide be turned?
“Yes, but we are still in the beginning of a period of reflection. The citizen must really be taken seriously. There is a lot of knowledge and commitment in every city. Not only, and not primarily, in City Hall. Nowadays half the city is highly educated. Involved citizens want to do their part. We need open cities, with room for coincidences, for citizen initiatives, inspired by citizen involvement."
Although the government is struggling, it is crucial to prevent complete sprawl.
"By not listening to residents, she weakens her own position. In the past, citizens sought contact with the sometimes Kafkaesque government, but now it is the other way around: the government is looking for the resident. Citizens must be given the freedom to actively think about the future of the city. But the often tense consultation meetings last an hour and just when the residents are allowed to have their say, time runs out. Such outdated participation techniques lead to bureaucratization and lawsuits filed by citizens. Developers want to avoid that hassle, they are increasingly adopting citizen participation and the new Environmental Act also requires this. In The City as an Open Book, a mini study was conducted into what people see as a good city. No fewer than 124 entries show that citizens certainly do not lack knowledge, involvement and creativity!"
How can you guarantee that beautiful construction will take place amid all the economic turbulence? You should know, because architecture is one of your great passions and you have been chairman of various welfare and monument committees.
"The French writer Stendhal wrote in the nineteenth century: 'Beauty is a promise of happiness'. Artists can work autonomously and for a long time architecture was an art form. That hasn't been the case for decades. Nowadays there is a separate architectural program with, when I started as a teacher, ninety percent emphasis on design and technology. I was raised as a universal person, teaching subjects on the fringes of architecture and urban planning: philosophy, sociology methodology, statistics, social ecology. No old-fashioned lectures, mainly studio sessions. In this way I have tried to get aspiring architects and urban planners to take a broader view. The question: what and for whom are buildings intended and what factors determine which buildings are built where and when? When is something beautiful and when is it ugly?"
Do the universities still provide sufficient knowledge?
"As an éminence grise, I give guest lectures and I notice that for many students these days it is primarily about study credits. They are great people, but they have less general knowledge and can no longer stand on the shoulders of people with a lot of knowledge. The sociologist Max Weber, the economist Karl Marx, the philosopher Alexis de Tocqueville or the anthropologist Margaret Mead? Who are you talking about, sir?”
In this respect your book is a bit melancholy?
"I look back on fifty years of my life. In 1966 we discussed developments in the profession every morning in the coffee room at the Sociological Institute. As a 24-year-old, I listened with fascination to the established scientists."
That coffee room no longer exists, but there are now many digital groups in which people exchange thoughts on all possible topics. Isn't that essentially the same thing?
“A fair perspective. Nowadays my lectures are much less about transferring knowledge, more about passion, involvement and reflection. A meaningful dialogue about the state of knowledge. Still a bit like that coffee machine, or better yet: the Greek corridors of classical antiquity."
A cry from your book: 'Factory sheds point their rear towards the train passenger where he used to see the Veluwezoom, heathlands, wooded strips and meadows with grazing cows. It's a kind of Berlin Wall. Still: behind that dismal image, the Netherlands is still very beautiful in many places?
"The European cities are still beautiful, even very beautiful. But Europe, including the Netherlands, is becoming increasingly cluttered, even a blind person can see that. Nowadays everything has to be uncritically modern, which is accompanied by a lack of cultural awareness. The Assyrians, the Pharaonic culture, the Greeks, the Romans all had aesthetic building rules. This is no longer self-evident these days, partly due to industrial mass construction."
As a nearly eighty-year-old, you certainly don't give up. Do you still seem to be busy with your profession day and night?
“Sitting still is not an option. The art of aging well is maintaining body and mind. I am chairman of the Maastricht architecture center TOPOS, organize study trips and excursions, give many lectures and am active in editorial boards. I also feel a duty of care for former students, both of Radboud University and of the Academy of Architecture. I have a lot of contact with them. I still try to make people enthusiastic about my fields of expertise, about academic reflection. In the field of spatial quality assurance, I continue to fight against the three damned O's: ignorance, disinterest and unwillingness."
'The city as an open book' can be ordered via www.toposmaastricht.com and costs 20 euros.
a
"
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 15, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")