Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=One year of Voorne aan Zee: 'It can only get better'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 3, 2024 Wednesday 04:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1009 words
Byline: Gert Onnink
Body


As a new merged municipality, Voorne aan Zee had a turbulent first year full of administrative unrest, which ended with complaints about services. Three councilors from the former municipalities (Hellevoetsluis, Brielle and Westvoorne) look back and ahead. “For me the glass is half full.”
The political year 2023 in Voorne aan Zee ended in a striking manner with a major argument about the Leergeld foundation. Opposition and councilor Janneke Postma (IBV) clashed over the minimum wage policy.
It was another example that had often been seen at the beginning, but also during the rest of the year. The formation of a new council (IBV, VVD, Party Voorne aan Zee and BVNL) was difficult, municipal secretary Vincent Florijn quickly resigned, followed by the resignation of education councilor Tatjana Sormaz (BVNL). How do municipal council members look back on one year of the merged municipality of Voorne aan Zee?
“The issue with the Leergeld foundation is actually symptomatic of this coalition. It has not turned out to be what we had hoped for," says D66 councilor Erik Mulder. The former councilor from Oostvoorne is not impressed by what has been achieved so far. "Many things have not been completed, it is all happening too hastily. We should actually have waited another year before the merger. It has been well prepared in merger committees and working groups, but it is now going from incident to incident.”
Critical advice
Colleague Wim Smit from ONS Brielle is on the same page. He calls the last council debate on the mini-policy, in which Alderman Postma wanted to reveal little, as exemplary of the current council. "The merger was one of three municipalities, but also of different administrative cultures. In Hellevoetsluis it was quite closed. It was always there: we will arrange that among ourselves. That is no longer there. The council now faces a critical municipal council, including former councilors with a lot of knowledge."
VVD leader Henk de Jong experienced many reorganizations in his work at the police. "You actually see the same patterns here. A lot is new, people in different places, that takes time. A common culture cannot be achieved in one year. We are not done yet, although for me the glass is half full. Councilor Sormaz was the wrong choice, but it was quickly resolved. And that takes courage.”
Before you know it, people appeal to the Council of State, but few people think they are right.
The liberal from Hellevoetsluis acknowledges that residents have become more critical and assertive. "You see that with the windmills, housing, the new ring road and housing for expats. Before you know it, people will appeal to the Council of State. That is their right, but few people think they are right. It is a matter of weighing all interests. The municipal council is there for the general interest and problems must be solved. We all want a house to live in.”
According to Erik Mulder, the 'closed' formation was followed by a new council without his D66, but with the surprising newcomers Party Voorne aan Zee and BVNL. "My idea is: I would have done more with the former councilors, now there are inexperienced people at the helm." He advocates more cooperation. “It is still too often counterproductive.”
Services
The three council members are concerned about the faltering services. Phone calls and letters are answered too late. They think that this is something that really needs to be worked on, even though the municipality has made commitments and promised improvement. "The organization is still struggling, it is slowly improving, but that also takes time," says Wim Smit (ONS Brielle). He points to a letter about the arrival of flexible housing in Brielle, in which Voorne aan Zee is an earlier letter from the former municipality of Brielle with a contrary message, "Of course, things like that should never happen again."
The 2024 budget has been balanced, so that we are now free of provincial receivership.
Despite all the criticism, things have gone well in Voorne aan Zee, the three say. Henk de Jong (VVD) is 'not dissatisfied' with what has been achieved in one year. "The harmonization of regulations of the three municipalities, such as shopping hours. Furthermore, the 2024 budget has been balanced, so that we can get rid of provincial receivership.”
He also mentions the arrival of a thousand new homes, the low costs and the participation policy. "And of course the construction of the new De Verwondering school and the new village center of Zwartewaal, both of which have finally started," says De Jong.
Rehwinkel
Erik Mulder (D66) sees more examples of good cooperation. “Take the search for a new mayor. That's going well, so it's possible. I also mention Mayor Peter Rehwinkel as an observer. He is objective, fulfills his role well and is a good example for the council.”
Wim Smit (ONS Brielle) praises the council's communication policy and its increasing openness. “Things are really getting better, there is more and more openness. We are going to talk to the village and district councils, participation in the environmental law is well arranged and indeed the new mayor."
He still advocates that the municipality should pay more attention to residents and their environment. Erik Mulder (D66) adds: "We should pay more attention to content and residents and less to each other. Really, we have to work together, only then can things get better. And we sincerely hope that a new mayor can contribute to this.”
The closing words go to Henk de Jong, leader of the coalition party VVD. “It has to get better every day. This is possible if we become increasingly better attuned to each other in 2024.”
Follow AD Rotterdams Dagblad now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.
Comment? Letters can be sent to our readers' editors, with first, last name and address (the latter not for publication). A reader letter is a maximum of 150 words and can be shortened. We do not post anonymous letters.

Load Date: January 3, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")