Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Bicycle tunnel under Ravenstein track appears to be too expensive, so the municipality has opted for a bridge for the time being
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 28, 2023 Thursday 06:05 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 449 words
Byline: Peter van Erp
Body


RAVENSTEIN - No luxury tunnel but a simple passerelle over the track. With this adjustment, the municipality wants to speed up the process for the new Stationskwartier district in Ravenstein. A tunnel is currently a bridge too far.
More than a year ago, the municipal council of Oss was still cheering about the award of a subsidy of 4 million euros for a new bicycle tunnel in Ravenstein. With that amount and the 7 million saved, the tunnel would be within reach. This would safeguard housing north of the railway. The subsidy was not specifically aimed at the construction of a tunnel. The more general goal was to accelerate this specific housing project.
Construction will start no later than 2025
ProRail has stated from the outset that construction can only take place on the north side of the track if there is a grade-separated intersection for pedestrians and cyclists. The current crossing at the Ravenstein station is too dangerous. Because the granted subsidy is subject to the condition that construction of the new district must start no later than 2025, the municipal council is now pushing ahead with the zoning plan for the Stationskwartier. For the time being with a so-called passerelle for pedestrians and cyclists. That is a high bridge over the railway with stairs and an elevator on either side.
We think we have a good chance of being awarded that subsidy, but we cannot bet on it being the case.
Councilor Sidney van den Bergh hopes that he can obtain an additional subsidy next year for a full-fledged bicycle tunnel. "We think we have a good chance of being awarded it, but we cannot bet on it being the case. That is why we are now opting for this solution.” A solution that ensures that the Stationskwartier still falls under the old spatial planning rules. The Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, which may cause costly delays.
New sports park
Van den Bergh does not think it is responsible at this time to go back to the municipal council for an extra contribution to the bicycle tunnel. "There will be approximately 180 homes on the north side of the tracks. At some point you have to ask yourself what it is worth to you as a community to make that happen.”
A total of about 330 houses will be built in the Stationskwartier, most of them on the south side of the tracks on the current football fields. The Ravenstein football players have to move to the Onder d'n Plag sports park in Demen for the time being. A study into a completely new sports park closer to the town should provide clarity before the summer about the feasibility of the fervent wish of the Ravenstein football players.

Load Date: December 28, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")