Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Strong momentum behind housing construction
The Gelderlander
December 30, 2023 Saturday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 423 words
Highlight: Just before January 1, Winterswijk has put a large number of housing plans into procedure. Plans are now ready for five hundred houses.
Body


Winterswijk now has plans ready for five hundred houses
Tanja Kits

Winterswijk

The new expansion of the De Rikker district with two hundred homes has been available for inspection since this week. "We made a great end-of-year sprint," says proud councilor Gosse Visser.

Together with the construction of more than a hundred new apartments on Europalaan (where three flats are being demolished) and numerous smaller construction plans, the municipality of Winterswijk now has a whole series of housing plans ready.
'Real construction'
The construction plans are not yet covered by the new Environmental Act, which will come into effect from January 1. That was one of the reasons for speeding up, says Visser. "We don't know how this new law will work out and whether it will cause delays. That is why we have quickly completed the plans we have been working on for some time. Because we really have to start building now."

Visser looks with sorrow at the current standstill of housing construction in his municipality. “There is hardly any construction going on in Winterswijk. And that really annoys me.”

According to him, the standstill of housing construction has several causes. "We are now in a hole that has arisen because hardly any new plans were submitted six years ago. Winterswijk was locked down at the time. But housing plans need a lot of time before they are actually implemented.”

According to him, other causes of the stagnant housing construction are the sharply increased costs of construction and the tight market for contractors. "In addition, the government limits the level of rents, making it less attractive to invest in rental properties. In addition, mortgage interest rates have risen. All this also causes stagnation."

The expansion of the De Rikker district includes approximately two hundred homes. In addition to the plan by Van Ommen and De Groot with 196 houses, seven houses are planned on the other side of the Jachthuisweg. Visser: "There are two agricultural companies there that are closing down and building housing in their place. As a result, the environmental circle of those agricultural companies no longer plays a role."

Winterswijk needs about nine hundred houses up to and including 2030 to meet demand. That is why there must be plans for twelve hundred homes, Visser explains. “Some don't make it to the finish line. So you need to have more plans in place. That's why we're just going to continue making plans. You have to keep believing in it."
We continue making plans. You have to keep believing in it

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: December 29, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")