Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Always the Achterhoek pin on the lapel
The Gelderlander
February 21, 2023 Tuesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 5
Length: 405 words
Byline: GERCO MONS
Highlight: Elections for the Provincial Council will be held on March 15. De Gelderlander asked five Achterhoekers who have been active as members of Parliament in recent years. What have they achieved for the region and what should still be done in the coming years?
Body


Peter Baks hopes for new Achterhoekers in provincial politics
Why did you choose a role in provincial politics?
"After eight years as a municipal councilor (2010-2018), I was unseated in 2018. Initially I had one more vote than the person below me on the list. Due to irregularities at five of the seventeen polling stations, a recount was conducted. Then it turned out that we had the same number of votes and lots had to be drawn. My colleague Annelies got our second seat in Oost Gelre. Then I was asked to join the PvdA Gelderland list for the 2019 elections. I thought that was a great new step!"
What have you personally achieved for the Achterhoek in the past period?
“Nothing specific to the Achterhoek. However, I have always looked at what consequences decisions have for the Achterhoek. The nitrogen dossier, but also nature conservation in the Achterhoek, must continue to receive attention. The regional manufacturing industry is an excellent calling card for the rest of Gelderland."
What has your party achieved for the Achterhoek in the past period?
“The Winter Fund has been raised nicely. An amount of 10 million euros for cultural, sporting and religious centers to continue paying the gas bill. That was of course also important for the Achterhoek 'volunteer association army'. I always wear my Achterhoek pin on my lapel and in winter also the Achterhoek scarf. In doing so, I continuously draw attention to the non-urban area. Because we as Achterhoekers only occupy 9 percent of the States, we must continue to draw attention."
What could or should the province mean for the Achterhoek in the coming period?
"Additionally protect the many small 'old forest growth sites' in the environmental law through measures. Furthermore, I would like to leave it to my successors in the States of Gelderland."
Why do Achterhoekers have to go to the polls in March?
“To give our Achterhoek candidate Hans Pelle from Eibergen a place in the States. Otherwise, the 'Beautiful Regions of Gelderland' would not get the attention they deserve with all those city dwellers in the States!"
Will we see you again in the States after the elections? Why/why not?
Not!
Why not?
"After 18.5 years of being active in politics, it is enough. It's the turn of the new generation."
Would you like to say anything else?
,,No thank you."
It is now the turn of the new generation

View the original page: page 5

Graphic

 
Peter Baks hopes that new Achterhoekers will take action in the Provincial Council.

Load Date: February 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")