Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Flash poll about nuisance wood burning
The Limburger
November 24, 2021 Wednesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5
Length: 344 words
Byline: Joos Philippens
Body


Who is bothered by wood burning in Maastricht? The municipality wants to know that. A 'flash poll' should provide the answer. Do you not burn and you have no problems? Then you are done after two questions.
The soot released from wood burning is the most harmful type of particulate matter; It can cause serious health problems, especially for people with sensitive airways. What can the government do, except have the RIVM issue 'heater alerts' in unfavorable weather conditions?
"If you have a wood stove or fire pit and neighbors, you can of course ask yourself: are they bothered by it?" says Maastricht councilor Gert-Jan Krabbendam. So awareness. But Maastricht does more. Until December 3, the municipality has a so-called flash poll. Residents can indicate whether they burn wood and whether it bothers them. If you answer twice, the survey ends immediately civil servant Astrid Vermeulen who tested this herself. Through social media, the municipality also hopes to reach the 'silent middle', people who rarely or never respond in citizen panels.
The survey is part of a pilot to map out where in the city the nuisance is greatest. A broader study will start in January into which areas cause the most nuisance. Ultimately, this should lead to rules in zoning plans (Environmental Act).
Then we will probably be at least three years further. Because at least until then, the Hoge Fronten air measuring station will measure the actual amount of soot. "The poll is a snapshot in terms of perceived nuisance, the measurement is factual," says Krabbendam.
The councilor has the feeling that the number of complaints about wood burning is increasing, but that is an estimate. "The pilot should make it clear which measures are possible and how you can enforce them."
Last year, Maastricht joined the national Clean Air Agreement. The government provides a subsidy of 70,000 euros for the wood-burning project, to which the municipality adds the same amount.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 23, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")