Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Substantial investment is needed to keep the Zidewinde swimming pool in Sprang-Capelle open
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 13, 2023 Wednesday 05:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 539 words
Byline: Michel Koster
Body


SPRANG-CAPELLE - Waalwijk wants to prevent a closure of the Zidewinde swimming pool in Sprang-Capelle. The installations are outdated and the requirements are becoming increasingly strict. The municipality is preparing for a major investment in the pool.
The outdoor pool in Sprang-Capelle has been in the picture for renovation for some time. Now some haste seems necessary. Suppose the installations are rejected and the pool has to be closed in the future. It is a doomsday scenario that looms if nothing happens. The municipality therefore wants to thoroughly overhaul the pool and adapt and modernize the installations. But what exactly will this cost?
The municipality does not yet have a clear answer to this. She first wants to thoroughly map out the situation of the swimming pool. This requires external expert help. The council wants to allocate an amount of 80,000 euros for preparatory research. The Waalwijk municipal council still has to agree to this investment. That decision will be made early next year.
Close in extreme cases
Doing nothing doesn't seem like an option. Municipalities have to deal with the new environmental law. A lot is changing, and this also applies to the requirements for bathing water. For example, extra attention is paid to hygiene, safety and structural supervision. According to the municipality, the current swimming pool installation does not meet all these stricter requirements. In extreme cases, the Environment Agency can oblige the municipality to close the pool if too many things appear to be wrong.
But the swimming pool will not close suddenly. The municipality is given more time. "Nevertheless, we want to make the necessary adjustments next year," the municipal spokesperson emphasizes. “The plan is to carry out the work after the summer holidays, as soon as the pool is closed.”
Zidewinde has had a poor season. The swimming pool attracted only 23,776 visitors due to the bad weather. Last year it was a lot warmer, and the counter stood at 31,886 swimmers.
Significantly increased prices
Keeping a swimming pool upright requires a significant investment. Zidewinde cost the municipality 90,000 euros this year, excluding personnel costs. Now the renovation is added. An amount of more than 423,000 euros has already been budgeted for this in 2016. The question is whether that is still sufficient. Prices have risen considerably over the years.
The size of the price tag will become clear next year. The municipality first wants to have the installations extensively inspected. Research should show which adjustments are needed at the swimming pool, now and in the future. Preparations are also already being made for the tender for the project.
Waalwijk hopes that the government will also cover part of the research costs (14,000 euros), through the so-called SPUK funds.
Fewer chemicals
The ambitions reach further. Waalwijk wants to make Zidewinde a much more sustainable complex. For example, the swimming pool will benefit from solar panels that will be installed on the nearby sports hall next year. These panels must generate sufficient power for both complexes. Installing a water pump is also part of the plans. The aim is to maintain bathing water quality with far fewer chemicals.

Load Date: December 13, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")