Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Nice, but not quite the best
The Limburger
February 3, 2018 Saturday
Heuvelland


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 1
Length: 507 words
Byline: BY JOOS PHILIPPENS
Body


 Also beautiful in
VAALS
Vaals lists his most iconic buildings. In addition to the recognized toppers, there is now also a list of 'valuable' sub-toppers. And it turns out to be very worthwhile.
Vaals has a few hundred beautiful buildings, but surprisingly not a single municipal monument. An inventory in 2007 should have led to a designation of these monuments, but Vaals decided not to do so.
The municipality is now catching up, in anticipation of the new Environmental Act. This will come into effect next year and is based on spatial monument care, instead of viewing buildings purely in isolation. Protection must be regulated in zoning plans.
The historical development of Vaals plays a role in this vision, in particular the construction of Maastrichterlaan in 1825. Before that, traffic passed through the old village center via Bloemendalstraat and Von Clermontplein. Around 1900, the emphasis shifted to Maastrichterlaan, where many stately villas were built.
The Roermondse Buro4 has now selected 206 special buildings in the municipality of Vaals, fifty of which are considered very valuable. These could have qualified for the status of municipal monument.
There is also a second category: valuable properties. These 65 buildings are not as authentic or valuable as those in the top category.
But there is also a lot of beauty in there.
Take the six different colored buildings on Bergstraat that form a special whole. The row could easily have been located in the famous Bo-Kaap district in Cape Town.
Until 1825, all traffic had to pass through this steep, atmospheric street. Very special. Buro4 has something to explain here and it does so: too little regional. Well, clearly.
You can immediately see why some buildings have been eliminated from the highest category. Kerkstraat 29 and 31 have a rare (for Vaals) Art Nouveau facade, which, however, has been expertly destroyed on the ground floor with later, styleless shop windows.
Exactly on the border is a corner building (Grensstraat 2) that is quite beautiful, but not distinctive and regional enough. Valuable, according to Buro4, because of the neoclassical style features and because it symbolizes the period of growth of Vaals through tourism and activity.
The building Viergrensweg 01 is quite crazy, which has a pseudo-timbered construction with green beams.
The current residents also turn it into a kind of Pippi Longstocking villa. Very distinctive for the area, but very atypical for Vaals, according to Buro4.
And so every building in the 'valuable' category has a blemish.
But these buildings - with the exception of a few - still remain interesting.
This applies to a slightly lesser extent to the third category, the largest with 91 'reasonably valuable' properties.
In any case: the 206 buildings convincingly prove how interesting the construction history of Vaals is.
 One of the iconic buildings is made of pseudo-timbering with green beams, a kind of Pippi Longstocking villa.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 7, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")