Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Will the asphalt plant continue to invest in lower emissions or would it be better to relocate?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 24, 2024 Wednesday 07:35 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 482 words
Byline: Geert van Elten
Body


DEN BOSCH - By order of the judge, the municipality of Eindhoven has imposed a penalty on Asfalt Centrale Eindhoven, because too much naphthalene was emitted a year ago. Yesterday, ACE management objected to the court.
The management of Asfalt Centrale Eindhoven (ACE) has no explanation for the exceedance of the maximum emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in April last year. A measurement showed that emissions were six times higher than permitted. Yesterday, the management faced three civil servants from the municipality of Eindhoven in the court in Den Bosch. ACE had appealed against the penalty imposed by the municipality: if the next limit was exceeded, the company would receive a fine of 50,000 euros.
ACE is one of the companies in the heavy industry category on the De Hurk industrial estate. Particularly in the adjacent 't Ven district, residents complain about odor nuisance. "But today we are not talking about the smell," said court chairman Verhoeven, to be clear.
Norm
The discussion was about which standard was at issue. Not those in the new Environmental Act that came into effect on January 1, 2024. And the interpretation that the municipality gave to the old standard met with objection from ACE. “The government has obliged us to reuse old asphalt when producing new asphalt. It must be heated for this and substances are released there,” says the management. In this case, it mainly concerns naphthalene, one of the substances under the collective name PAH, which can cause cancer at high concentrations.
ACE also exceeded the standard in previous years. Initially, the municipality believed that there was no legal basis for taking action against the polluter, but at the request of environmental club Mobilization for the Environment, the court ordered the municipality to look at this again. With the order subject to penalty as a result.
Clean production
ACE really does its best to produce cleanly, the management emphasized. For example, a roof has been built to limit the temperature. “And we want to invest even more in such measures, but we would like clarity from the municipality. Because there is also talk about phasing out heavy industry at De Hurk. An official even asked us if we didn't want to move to Belgium, because the emission standards are higher there.”
The discussion was often about technical details, such as the standard of 0.05 milligrams per m3 and whether you should measure for 30 or 45 minutes. And although all admitted that they were not chemists, they also talked about stability and volatility and about the fact that fabric filters do not work with gaseous emissions. About the benefit period within which the situation must have improved. Everything was done in a friendly atmosphere and after the chairman promised to make a ruling within six weeks, the opponents shook hands.

Load Date: April 24, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")