Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Will it be possible to build on the site of the burned down Plasmolen hotel, or will nitrogen remain a problem?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 18, 2023 Monday 09:55 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 450 words
Byline: Margriet Verschoor
Body


Near the Sint-Jansberg nature reserve, on the site of the burned down Plasmolen hotel, Nijmegen developer Ton Hendriks wants to build apartments and houses. But the expected higher precipitation of nitrogen got in the way of the plans. Now there is a new attempt to keep it going, but it is not completely certain.
It is a well-known place in Plasmolen, near a pond overlooking the moraine and just south of the Rijksweg. Until 2001, the famous Hotel Plasmolen stood here, which then burned down. The site has been vacant since then, but construction plans have been in the works for some time. A chic apartment complex is planned, with fifteen apartments and twelve semi-detached houses. Everything in the more expensive segment.
The council of Mook and Middelaar already agreed to this in 2018, on the condition that catering facilities would be added. That turned out to be a difficult point. An operator was difficult to find and local residents feared inconvenience. The municipality decided to drop the condition in 2020, but then there was another problem: the nitrogen crisis.
More nitrogen
Even more delays, councilor Ton Herings confirms: "The plan area is close to the Sint-Jansberg nature reserve, which is a Natura 2000 area. The location close to nature in combination with the nitrogen problems has indeed slowed things down further.”
Research shows that a significantly higher nitrogen precipitation is expected, also in the De Bruuk and Oeffelter Meent nature reserves.
Read more below the photo
Everything has been tried to find a solution, as the documents show. For example, the canceled catering function was deducted from the expected nitrogen emissions in calculations, and the initiator's external nitrogen rights were also taken into account.
Ultimately, the plan was registered for the provincial nitrogen registration system of the province of Limburg. This fund offers 'nitrogen space for initiatives with a social interest'. In principle, this includes the construction of homes that are necessary 'in accordance with the applicable housing policy'. However, the province still has to assess this.
New legislation
The fact that the plan is already being put forward is due to new legislation that will apply from January. Councilor Herings: "If the developer does not make the request now, it will soon have to comply with the Environmental Act and the requirements of the Housing Deal, such as 30 percent social rent, and that is not exactly what is included in this plan. Then this is off the table.”
If the province does not want to add it to the nitrogen registration system, it will end anyway and it will no longer go to the municipal council. However, when asked, developer Ton Hendriks is positive, as far as he is concerned it will continue as usual.

Load Date: December 19, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")