Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Buildings, tombs and crosses show who you are' Refurbishment for the chapel of Eperheide
The Limburger
April 26, 2023 Wednesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: CULTURAL HERITAGE; Page 6
Length: 473 words
Byline: René Willems
Body


The Gulpen-Wittem municipal council receives the grant for the preservation of cultural heritage.
Gulpen-Wittem has, apart from the new heritage regulations, released an amount of forty thousand euros for the renovation of the Lady Chapel in Eperheide. The neighborhood association has been pushing for the restoration of that chapel for years. Years ago she made a design for the redesign of the square near the chapel, where the old village pump is also located. Later this year, the council will come up with a concrete proposal for that central location in the middle of the village, where residents come together when something special is going on in Eperheide.
The annual budget available for maintenance of old buildings, but also small landscape elements such as sunken roads and graves, has been increased from twenty to ninety thousand euros. The Gulpen-Wittem municipal council has unanimously agreed to this. This means that the number of objects that fall under this scheme can be increased from four to seven hundred.
Identity
It is precisely these expressions of human intervention in the environment that determine the identity of Gulpen-Wittem, notes councilor Piet Franssen, somewhat chauvinistically described in the council's thick heritage memorandum as 'one of the most beautiful areas in the Netherlands'. "By using local raw materials such as marl and oak you show who you are," says Franssen.
The new Environmental Act, which will finally come into effect on January 1, 2024 after repeated postponements, obliges municipalities to handle cultural heritage properly. They must protect buildings that are important for the character of a village or city, for example by giving them a separate status in Environmental Plans drawn up by the municipal councils.
In principle, churches also fall under the new arrangement. This also allows parishes to receive money for the maintenance of their church buildings. It is not clear whether this also applies to churches that belong to a monastery. Franssen has promised the council that he will look into whether those monastery churches can also be included in that policy.
Coalition party CDA agrees with the proposal. Spokesman Roger Cratsborn asks the council to stop at measures that are mandatory under the future Environmental Act. The party is reluctant to reserve part of the money for promotion or campaigns to make people aware of the importance of cultural heritage.
Disappointed
Franssen is 'deeply disappointed' by the reticent attitude of coalition partner CDA. "I expected a more enthusiastic attitude from the CDA in this matter," he underlines. Franssen points out to Cratsborn the coalition agreement between Fractie Franssen, Balans and CDA in which the preservation of cultural heritage is explicitly mentioned. CDA does not respond to this further.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 25, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")