Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Lack of participation in plan for Gaardenhage'
The Gelderlander
May 10, 2023 Wednesday
Liemers Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 5
Length: 461 words
Body


"For the municipality of Arnhem, participation and input mean that you can sit there, but you have to keep your mouth shut and swallow everything that the municipality proposes." This is what a disappointed resident of the Gaardenhage housing plan said yesterday during a lawsuit before the Council of State.

Thirty Arnhem residents hope that the country's highest administrative court can do something to force the municipality to seriously consider their proposals for an alternative building plan. Because according to the spokespersons and counselors, the municipal council is hearing deaf and seeing blind, at least as far as participation and participation are concerned.

"If the municipality had deleted six to nine homes at the allotment garden location De Tuinmaat, we would not be here in The Hague. But the municipality does not listen to us, not at all," said Arnhemmer David Kroekenstoel.

He and his supporters believe that the municipality wants to build far too many homes on the temporary allotment complex. This is in stark contrast to previous plans to build only a few larger houses there. An additional 48 homes will be added, mainly self-build houses and tiny houses. The local residents came up with a serious alternative plan for thirty houses, but Arnhem does not like that.

According to counselor Eelco de Jong of the local residents, the municipality is showing its worst side here. "We will soon have the Environmental Act, which will require citizens to have an extensive opportunity to participate in discussions about these types of building plans. With this plan, citizens have done their utmost to come up with a serious alternative. And not just to be against it."

The municipality only says that participation and participation does not mean that you are right, says De Jong. "That is not what local residents expect, they just want to be taken seriously. Arnhem doesn't do that. The church is not listening and that is a shame. This way, as a government, you really don't inspire confidence among the citizens."

Other objectors, such as Rien Boone and Bob Nijhuis, think it is pointless to move the De Tuinmaat allotment garden to an open meadow area right next to a forest between Huissensedijk and John Grosmanstraat. Boone and Nijhuis propose to establish the allotments next to the current allotment complex close to Stadsboerderij De Korenmaat.

Incidentally, the Council of State encountered a possible formal error during yesterday's hearing. Arnhem's counselor already saw the mood brewing and asked the highest administrative judge to give the municipality the opportunity to do its homework. Whether the council will accept the Arnhem proposal will become clear within a few weeks.

Cerberus Press Agency
Local residents denounce the role of the municipality in housing development and claim that Arnhem does not listen to them

View the original page: page 5

Load Date: May 9, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")