Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Give maximum space to residents and companies
The Gelderlander
October 18, 2014 Saturday
Nijmegen City


Copyright 2014 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: 3_OPINION
Length: 410 words
Byline: HAYKE VELDMAN
Body


by Hayke Veldman
 NIJMEGEN - Fortunately, the housing market is slowly but surely picking up again. These have been tough years.
 It was difficult for people to get a mortgage, for companies to get a loan. New construction and renovation, things were disappointing on several fronts.
 Thanks to a number of temporary incentive measures, such as tackling residual debts, expanding the deduction of double burdens and a renewed reduced VAT rate for renovation, sales numbers and prices are increasing again.
 In addition to these incidental facilities, structural measures must allow the housing market to function as a market again. Supply and demand must find each other. So that someone who comes 'from outside the region' and finds a job in Nijmegen can also find a home of their choice here.
 A market in which someone who can afford to buy a house receives a suitable mortgage. And a situation in which someone who wants to build their own home can also start building as quickly as possible. Structural facilities require something from all partners on the 'playing field'. But it mainly requires regional customization. Blueprints from The Hague will not help stimulate housing construction. What does work is regional management based on needs and cooperation; only allow people who need it in terms of income to live in social housing; Encourage 'crooked residents' to rent or buy freely. To this end, more space must be created for the construction of free rental homes instead of more social housing; more space for owner-occupied homes with a good choice of plots.
 This should be combined with faster and greater depreciation of building land. Congregation, take your loss! This can reduce the land price. In addition, the central government can provide new building regulations. By making adjustments to the permit system and, for example, construction supervision. Fewer rules and certified working methods. In the long term, the Environmental Act will also provide additional space.
 But... the municipality can already release all kinds of obligations and target provisions in zoning plans. Now reformulate closed zoning plans into a general vision and provide maximum space within it. Both for new construction, but certainly also for reconstruction and renovation. Flexibility in the use of existing buildings and dare to opt for flexible use and temporary construction.
 There is no one panacea here. Choose creativity, flexibility and regional cooperation. That does help.

Load Date: October 18, 2014, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")