Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=NO HEAD
The Gelderlander
May 30, 2015 Saturday
AchiterhoekArnhemBetuweRijk van NijmegenLiemersMaas en WaalNijmegen CityRenkumRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierelandAppendixDe valleyVeluweWijchen Beuningen


Copyright 2015 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: ECONOMY
Length: 578 words
Byline: LAURENS COOK
Body


After 2018, one permit, instead of dozens for a project. - Minister Schultz van Haegen (Infrastructure) will present the new environmental law next week. According to her, construction will go faster and better.
 by Laurens Kok
 THE HAGUE - The renovation of her house in Leiden is almost finished. The project was quite complex. Two buildings had to be turned into one home. She soon came across a provision that the front facade could be a maximum of 7.5 meters wide. "No one could tell us why. Look, there was another rule that no one understands."
 And you are making short work of that with the environmental law?
 “It is much worse with larger, complex projects. In Rotterdam, Eneco is working on laying a heating pipeline over 17 kilometers from the industrial estate to the city center. This requires thirty permanent and two hundred temporary permits! When the Environmental Act is introduced in 2018, only one permit, one project decision, will be required. Then you can speed up a lot more."
 Why?
 “We have arranged a lot in the Netherlands. There are approximately 26 laws that determine how our living environment is organized. This concerns requirements for buildings, the environment, noise, odor nuisance, you name it. The problem is that these laws sometimes overlap, but at the same time they all use different definitions and impose different requirements. That is why we as a government have said: we are going to untangle this tangle. We are turning it into one law, which at the same time offers room for customization."
 That sounds a bit vague.
 "Take something like noise standards. They are now the same everywhere, whether you want to build in the city center of Amsterdam or somewhere in the countryside. Municipalities will soon be able to make a better decision for themselves how much noise is acceptable. There are more examples: as a Will the government still prescribe how much lighting must be installed around tennis courts and how loudly those lamps must be on? Another thing: it is still the case that as a project developer you have to conduct a new soil survey for archaeological heritage every two years, if you know that it has been there for five hundred years If something is in the ground, it will still be there in two years!"
 With this law, aren't you mainly giving builders free rein, while nature conservationists are left behind?
 “No, that's just not true. I dare even say that nature will be better off. Suppose you want to build a road, then everything has to be taken into account in advance, including nature and the environment, if there is no permit or whatever. And once the decision has been made and it is subsequently deviated from, you can simply go to court. You do not lose legal certainty."
 Is this your last major job in this term of office?
 Laughing: "That depends on how long the cabinet remains in office."
 Your road budget has been cut significantly. So we shouldn't expect any new plans?
 "We are spending more money on infrastructure than ever, because money has been brought forward for later years. We are creating 780 kilometers of additional asphalt. Until 2028, there is 80 billion euros for new infrastructure and maintenance. It is true that you say that there is no budget yet for further plans."
 Well, that's striking. Windfalls are coming.
 "If that is the case, I will certainly raise my hand. I think infrastructure, together with education and defense, are the most important goals in which a government can invest. The fact that we have contributed to the cuts is good, but at the moment it will be divided again falls, this includes money for infrastructure."

Load Date: May 30, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")