Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No critical questions for the councilor: the municipality of Ermelo interviews him itself
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 22, 2024 Thursday 05:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 706 words
Byline: Gep Leeflang
Body


Ermelo political parties are not yet finished with a controversial publication with councilor Hugo Weidema. The municipality conducted that interview - about the headache file Tomassen Duck-To - itself instead of having it critically questioned by independent journalists. That is a questionable development, according to four of the seven parties in the Ermelo city council.
Last week, René Arts (Progressive Ermelo) asked a series of oral questions about it during the council meeting, also on behalf of HEE22, VVD and SGP. Weidema limited himself to a brief response and called the questions 'a bit suggestive'.
Communications councilor Sarath Hamstra added that Ermelo 'communicates administrative information much more often via the municipal pages'. If Arts is not satisfied with the short response, Mayor Hans van Daalen said, he should come back to it in a different way.
Later that evening, Weidema announced his departure, due to the major impact that being a councilor has on his private life. “I then understood why the questions were answered so marginally,” says Arts.
However, he believes that the fact that he is resigning is no reason to leave it at that. With the written questions he has now submitted, the opposition parties are making it a matter of principle.
The interview - which the municipality announced Weidema's departure - gave the appearance of an objective or critical article because of the way it was elaborated. The council factions consider this a questionable development for the administrative culture they advocate.
One-sided transmission
Tomassen Duck-To is an extremely sensitive subject, about which the opposition regularly attacks the council and about which the municipality repeatedly announced Weidema's departure. The opposition parties find it inappropriate for an alderman to 'broadcast unilaterally' about this instead of having journalists ask critical questions about it.
They want the mayor and aldermen to rule on whether the municipal website should be used in that way. The article was also on the paid municipal pages in the Ermelo's Weekblad. Is that space not only intended for providing politically neutral or factual information, the four parties wonder.
Sensitive
Councilor Hamstra mentioned two examples (low literacy and environmental law) of 'comparable' topics on which the municipality reported. However, these were not politically sensitive files, emphasize Progressive Ermelo, HEE22, VVD and SGP. And unlike the interview about the duck file, those documents mainly contain factual information.
The article with Weidema is strongly reminiscent of the interview that the municipality itself conducted with André Baars, after the mayor resigned at the end of 2020 because his position had become untenable. Baars - under heavy fire in several headache cases - did not want to talk to the independent critical press, he only gave an interview to the copywriter hired by the municipality. This led to quotes such as: 'Believe me, I wanted to spare Ermelo this misery'.
Inaccuracies
In the article with Weidema, the four parties are also bothered by the fact that his party one-Ermelo is highlighted positively and that it contains 'factual and demonstrable inaccuracies'. “I have no history with this issue, no emotional involvement,” they read. Before Weidema became alderman on behalf of Een-Ermelo, he was a councilor for five years in an important period for this file.
It also states that the Tomassen Duck-To file 'has now become so complex that it can no longer be explained in a few sentences'. Weidema then says that this 'is also noticeable in the reports in the media. I understand very well that this is also a difficult subject for journalists.'
Progressive Ermelo, HEE22, VVD and SGP are bothered by those words, which disqualify publications in the press. They want to know from B and W whether, in their opinion, the press is 'capable of writing about complex subjects'. 'Does the council believe that the municipal council and the press need each other in a democracy?' They want an answer to that. “And is this a good way to maintain relationships?”

Load Date: April 25, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")