Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The soil in Gelderland is not clean, but it is safe
The Gelderlander
December 13, 2022 Tuesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 8, 9
Length: 729 words
Byline: ALBERT HELLER
Highlight: More than forty years after the largest poison scandal in the Netherlands, the most famous poisonous grounds in Gelderland have been remediated. What remains is a soil that is not clean, but safe.
Body


Responsibility for remediation goes from the province to the municipalities
Albert Heller

Arnhem

No, Kees Kappen cannot rule out that another location will emerge in the coming years where the soil is seriously contaminated. But the chance of such a place is becoming smaller and smaller. "In recent years, it has been very accurately mapped out where factories or laundries used to be and where there may be contamination in the ground."

The last discovery in Gelderland was in 2018, in Dinxperlo, where asbestos was found to be in the ground. Comes from a bombing during the Second World War. "We actually don't expect that anymore. But you see that sometimes there still appears to be contamination."

Kappen is partly responsible at the province for tackling soil remediation in large projects. Since the discovery of toxic substances under a residential area in Lekkerkerk in 1980, it is up to each province to detect contamination and ensure that the soil is cleaned. This responsibility will soon be largely transferred to municipalities due to the introduction of the Environmental Act. Provinces retain a coordinating role. Time for Kappen to take stock.

Just like the province, the municipalities will not commit themselves to making the soil completely clean. That is impossible. Kappen: “Large parts of the Netherlands are polluted. Wherever people have been active, there is something in the ground. In the beginning we said: we are going to clean everything up. But that turns out to be impossible. We only clean up places where there are risks to people and animals."
Laundries
From a list of 135 contaminated places drawn up in 2013, there are now 48 places left where purification is still underway. For example, the groundwater is cleaned on site. In Gelderland, this includes locations of former laundries. Here, toxic degreasers went straight into the ground, where they became increasingly toxic. “These degreasers were a wonderful product for those laundries. It worked perfectly, but the consequences in the soil were not thought about."

Kappen also sees the same reflex with PFAS, which worries him for the future. PFAS is the name for a group of chemicals that, among other things, repel water. For several years there have been concerns about the amount of PFAS found in soil. Kapken: "PFAS is a great product, but no thought has been given to what could happen if it ends up in the environment."

Such a material poses new questions for him and his colleagues. “We now know a lot about those degreasers from the laundries, including how they behave in the soil. We don't know that yet about PFAS. We have yet to fully discover that.”

Not only companies, but also private individuals ensure that the soil is exposed to pollution. “We already measure medicine residues in the groundwater. People still flush their medications. That's not intentional, but it does have an impact."
Paint thinners
This is how it goes with more things that people - sometimes unknowingly - dump into the sewer. “Consider, for example, paint thinners. The red lights are now on at the sewage treatment plants. The bacteria needed to purify the water are killed by the contaminants in the sewage water."

Yet Kappen does not just want to be gloomy. A lot has actually improved. The demands have gone up. “No, the soil is not super clean. But that's not necessarily a bad thing."

But people often experience it that way. If a certain substance is found in the ground beneath a residential area, conclusions are quickly drawn, Kappen sees. "If the neighbor has cancer and there is something in the ground, it quickly sounds: something is going on."

The inhabitants of the Netherlands have become more assertive, including in all kinds of areas. Suspicion has arisen and this sometimes results in distorted images, Kappen thinks. "For example, people are concerned about benzene in the subsurface. While you ingest more benzene if you fill up at a gas station."

Yet residents are quick to demand that the soil be remediated if it turns out to contain a toxic substance. "In the past, as a government you would say: 'No need: everything will be fine.' Now you have to explain very clearly why things will turn out well."
Bacteria that are needed to purify the water die in our sewage water

View the original page: page 8, page 9

Graphic

 
Soil remediation in the Dedelstraat in Arnhem in 2017. Archive photo Marina Popova

Load Date: December 12, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")