Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Believe me, no one wants to go back to old Lith'
The Gelderlander
January 13, 2021 Wednesday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4
Length: 624 words
Byline: MARI VAN ROSSEM
Highlight: Next year the time will come when the villages in the Land van Cuijk will become one municipality. Lith experienced the same thing ten years ago and was absorbed into the municipality of Oss. “It's better now than ever.”
Body


'In the beginning emotion prevailed; rationality soon followed.' That's pretty much the nutshell in which Lithuanian Noud Bongers wraps up the first days of his village in Oss.

January 1 marked exactly ten years ago that a municipal reorganization put an end to the independence of 'his' Lith. “But now it's better than ever before. Believe me, no one wants to go back to that old community. The advantage at the time was of course that Oss gained the necessary experience with redistricting earlier," says Bongers (68), who was himself a councilor and alderman on behalf of his party Lithmaatschap. "After all, Megen, Berghem and Ravenstein had already been incorporated. Yes, of course the emotions in Bèrg at the time were enormous; it could not be compared to ours. But all in all, Oss did well, I think. You already saw that political divisions were growing in municipalities such as Grave and Landerd and Bernheze: I think the last convulsions of independence, which we also experienced here."

In his opinion, the only thing where Oss still needs to dot the i's and cross the i's in the coming years is the quality of life in all centres. To prevent an exodus from villages and an exodus to cities. "And uh, I would like a quick cycle path along the N625, from the lock towards Lithoijen."
Tough process
Fellow villager Mathieu Raemaekers (69), also chairman of the De Snoeck Social Cultural Center Foundation, also looks back positively. "In the run-up to this, I was leader of Noud's party and was allowed to help lead this rather difficult process. In retrospect, merging was the best move; If you can no longer get your budgets positive, it is better to join a big brother."

In addition, Raemaekers states categorically that Oss has helped his village enormously in transforming the De Hoeve community center into multifunctional accommodation De Snoeck. "Our beautiful living room, which we share with the primary school, library and GGD. Perfect. Memorial services are also held here and numerous associations have their home here."

For Mari van Kilsdonk (40), current CDA councilor, the reorganization was a horror at the time. "Our General Interest Party, opposition party, was completely against the dissolution of Lith. We preferred to stay close to the citizens. With what we know today, it is a good thing that we merged with Oss in 2011. The Wmo, the energy transition, the new Environmental Act: that would have been far too much for Lith. Yet. Deep in my heart I still believe that a small municipality with fewer powers and tasks and a strong province as a backup can operate closer to the people."

Oijenaar Henri Arts (62) would like to say 'that Oss has ultimately achieved Lith's ambitious, sometimes megalomaniac plans'. "We are overjoyed here with our new village hall, more than seventy homes and a new school that is viable. As chairman of the Lith village council, I dare to say that Oss has an eye for our centres. However, housing construction remains a concern, especially for Lithoijen. And for us Oijen residents it was nice that the retirement home did not have to be demolished."

From Maren-Kessel, Theo van Mook ('65 and political party hopper') says that the old Lithish short-term thinking and hand-shake has 'fortunately' made way for long-term plans and Osse openness. But as a duck decoy he looks at the wind turbine developments. "I don't believe in those mills and fear that they will disturb the polder and meadow birds. So we'll have to wait and see what the government and the new government will do."
Our party was completely against the dissolution of Lith
If your budget does not get positive, it is better to join a big brother

View the original page: page 4

Graphic

 
Mathieu Raemaekers (left) and Noud Bongers at the place where the village of Lith begins: the sign with the pike.

Load Date: January 12, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")