Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Noise standard puts a bomb under residential construction
The Gelderlander
July 29, 2020 Wednesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 6
Length: 416 words
Byline: LEX VAN KOOTEN
Highlight: Construction companies, municipalities and project developers are raising the alarm about housing construction in the East of the Netherlands. They warn the cabinet in a letter that the construction of tens of thousands of homes will be hampered by new, stricter noise standards.
Body


The alarm phase initially seemed to apply mainly to the Randstad. It becomes clear that parts of Flevoland, Overijssel and Gelderland are also in the firing line of the new standards. The municipalities of Arnhem, Ede and Nijmegen are co-signatories of a letter to ministers Kajsa Ollongren, Eric Wiebes and Wopke Hoekstra, in which they express their great concerns.

Lawyer Nicolette Zandvliet of the Dutch trade association for project developers Neprom speaks of 'yet another nightmare'. Chairman Hans van Norel of Bouwend Nederland Region East cannot estimate the impact. “It will soon involve a lot of homes. We are investigating exactly how much in the East of the Netherlands."

The stricter noise standards are part of the new Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2022. The law bundles 163 laws and regulations for the living environment. This should result in better and faster decision-making. According to Neprom lawyer Zandvliet, the new law also combines various noise calculations. "It is currently the case that you have a noise standard for aircraft and one for industry, roads and rail. Soon there will be a standard that adds up everything. Aviation in particular counts more heavily."

According to her, the effect is that more and larger areas are created in the poor or very poor noise class. This is especially true in zones around airports such as Schiphol, Lelystad and Teuge. The zone around Lelystad in particular could easily become large, because the airport is expanding as an overflow airport from Schiphol.

In addition, a large region has to deal with low flight routes to and from Lelystad. That makes housing construction more difficult. “Which municipality wants to build a neighborhood where there is too much noise? These new standards are not introduced for nothing," says Zandvliet.

The housing shortage in the Netherlands is great. The construction sector has a target of 90,000 new homes per year. "We will never make it this way." Van Norel argues for 'a good weighing of interests'. "The government can still make adjustments."

Project developers are sounding the alarm, Zandvliet signals. "In any case, the new standards will increase rather than decrease construction costs, while there is a demand for affordable housing." And: "You can tighten standards, but that will not solve the noise and noise pollution. You must also look at what the source is, who is producing sound and how you can get it to an acceptable level."
Soon there will be a standard that adds up everything. Aviation in particular counts more heavily

View the original page: page 6

Load Date: July 28, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")