Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipalities will face a lot in 2024, and often without the helping hand of the government
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 1, 2024 Monday 07:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 800 words
Byline: Cor van Dalen
Body


The year 2023 is behind us, 2024 has begun. At the request of Stentor, the mayors of three municipalities in the region (Staphorst, Steenwijkerland and Zwartewaterland) express a New Year's wish. And they look back again. Mayor Richard Korteland (Meppel) has announced that he 'chooses not to cooperate at this time'.
What do you wish for your residents?
Rob Bats (Steenwijkerland): ,,First of all, I wish everyone a healthy new year. Because we may sometimes take that for granted. Of course it isn't. Health is a great and precious commodity. Before the new year, many undoubtedly have their own thoughts about what moments of happiness are, about the opportunities they want to seize, experiences they want to share or about what the world – big or small – should look like. I wish everyone that at the end of the new year they can conclude: this was a good year. When I look at our beautiful municipality, I hope that we will also be careful with it in 2024. A community where life is good. Where people still know each other and give each other space. I wish that for Steenwijkerland.”
Jan ten Kate (Staphorst): "First of all, good health. Health is everything. After that comes everything else. The national elections have shown us that a lot is coming our way as a society. And in the meantime, life is becoming more and more expensive. That is quite a challenge for some people. Fortunately, there are many schemes for minimum wage earners. I hope they also take advantage of that. But even for the group above, the people who often work with their hands every day, it is not always easy to make ends meet. I wish and hope that those residents will have more breathing space in the coming year.”
Eddy Bilder (Zwartewaterland): "I wish our residents much health and blessings in 2024."
The biggest challenge for your municipality in 2024?
Ten Kate: “I just mentioned that we have a lot coming our way. For us as a society and also for us as a municipality. Many tasks are passed on to municipalities from The Hague, often without proper frameworks and financing. For example, look at themes such as the climate, energy, refugee shelter and nitrogen. Add to this the housing shortage and the new environmental law and it is clear that as a municipality we have more than one challenge. As mayor, I think it is important that we stay in touch with our residents about this. To have the right conversation with each other and thus make the right choices. Ultimately, we have to figure it out together.”
Bilder: "Our community is characterized by down-to-earthness, strong traditions and close ties. We have faced several challenges in recent years. Our stable base has proven to be an advantage. I don't expect us to live in a country after January 1 where everything is suddenly calm. I do know that we as a society are equipped to face this new year with good courage.”
Bats: "There is a lot on our plate: housing construction, climate goals, sheltering displaced people, to name just a few. That is a fact and perhaps also the biggest challenge. But we shouldn't panic about it. Above all, we must continue to look at the possibilities and opportunities that exist and at a good balance. That means making choices. Because we can't do everything at once either. One thing is clear about all these choices: we do it for our residents and entrepreneurs. In the full realization that we are there for them and not the other way around.”
HIGHLIGHT OF THE PAST YEAR
Bilder calls 'the many events' the highlights of 2023 in his municipality of Zwartewaterland. “I think of Hassailt, Zwartsluis Onder Zeil and the celebration of 880 years of the Hanseatic League in the Grote Kerk in Hasselt.”
For Ten Kate there are two highlights that have to do with the Second World War. “We celebrated our freedom with the largest freedom choir in the Netherlands in Rouveen. Wonderful event with stories, acts, music, vehicles and much more. Very professional. At the end of August we reflected on the war in a different way. With a delegation from Staphorst we went to the former Neuengamme concentration camp, where twenty Staphorsts were transported after a raid during the war. No one returned. After the war it was hardly talked about. Too painful. And the people had to move on. Now a monument has been unveiled in Neuengamme for these victims from Staphorst. Very special to be able to attend that.”
Bats: “Difficult question, because many beautiful things have happened in Steenwijkerland. What I found special - which was also the merit of the residents themselves - was that Blokzijl regained its city rights, exactly 350 years after Prince Willem III had granted them. That was nice.”

Load Date: January 1, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")