Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipality on schedule with land sale
The Gelderlander
January 7, 2016 Thursday
Wijchen Beuningen


Copyright 2016 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 2
Length: 482 words
Byline: BY BIANCA GOVERS
Body


The municipality of Beuningen is on schedule with the sale of buildings and plots of land. Four locations have almost been sold.
About two years ago, the municipal council drew up an action plan for the sale of nineteen buildings and plots. The sale should be worth more than 4 million euros. To ensure interest, buyers would be given more space by the municipality. For example, to change the function of the building they purchased.
The action plan was divided into two phases. The first stage consisted of eight locations. Half should have a different owner before 2017. That seems to be working, says councilor Piet de Klein. The land on Schoolstraat and Dorpssingel in Beuningen, where De Regenboog primary school used to be located, has already been sold. There will be an apartment complex and a detached house or semi-detached house.
An office with three apartments is currently being built on the site of the former Beuningen politburo, on Van Heemstraweg. Also in Beuningen, namely on the corner of Lagunesingel and Pieckelaan, five houses are planned. One is gone, options have now been taken on the other. If the sale of the playgroup on Patrijslaan goes ahead, the municipality will end up with four sold locations. Initially, a general practitioners' collective was interested in Patrijslaan number 25-27.
When this plan failed due to failure to complete the business plan, a group of Beuningen residents contacted the municipality. They want to build several houses on the site. These conversations are still ongoing.
People have already registered for all other four locations in the first phase. The sale fell through for various reasons. For example, a group of Winssen residents wanted to develop a generation park at the site of the kicking field on Leegstraat. However, the municipality only allowed housing construction on that site, because it thought it would earn more money that way. Two parties already had plans for the Red Cross building on Begoniastraat. The first proposal turned out to be unfeasible because of the mill located nearby. The other candidate for the Red Cross building wanted to build more homes than fit within the housing construction agreements made.
The municipality has now decided to wait a while with the sale. She then wants to see whether that site should be built on at all. There is little greenery in the rest of the district. In addition, the mill must be taken into account. The other two locations of the first phase that are still looking for a new owner are Alex Willemstraat 1 in Winssen and Augustuslaan 22a in Beuningen.
The sale of the plots of land on Koningsstraat and Steegstraat in Ewijk - or the second phase - will start in a year or two. Reason: the new environmental law has then come into effect.
Beuningen hopes to be able to supplement the municipal coffers with an amount of 4 million euros

Graphic

 
The building will be built on the site of the former police station. --PHOTO SOURCE--photo Eveline van Elk

Load Date: January 6, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")