Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=City council members: 'thank you, that white one'
The Gelderlander
March 21, 2022 Monday
Rivierenland Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2
Length: 300 words
Byline: ERIC WIJNACKER
Body


You used to be a notable in your village or city if you were a member of the municipal council. In 2022, there is little such respect anymore. You're lucky if there are no grumblings at birthdays or parties about those 'pockets at the town hall', hopefully accompanied by the excusing last sentence 'but we don't mean you by this.'

Every four years, parties find it difficult to fill their candidate lists. Yet since last Wednesday evening, almost 120 people can call themselves municipal councilors in Tiel, West Betuwe, Buren, Neder-Betuwe and Culemborg.

That is something to be grateful for. Because for all that meeting work in the evenings, you didn't get much fun in return during the past corona periods.

Many council members sat in an attic room participating digitally, while the rest of the family busied themselves with things other than the Regional Energy Strategy Rivierenland or the consequences of the new Environmental Act. Having a nice drink in the town hall or the nearby pub was not an option either.

Then let's talk about the pocket-filling that council members are often accused of. They receive a monthly allowance of 1000 to 1500 euros in municipalities of the size we know in Rivierenland. A nice extra income, but for all those hours of reading and meetings, on average at least 15 to 25 hours per week, you cannot say that the Silver Fleet sails in via the Rhine, Waal or Linge.

In the coming weeks, the departing council members will be thanked for their services. We no longer have to take off our hats to them when we meet them on the street, as we used to. But as the ancient Betuwe chronicler Hannes van den Hatert described gratitude: thank you, the white one.

Eric Wijnacker

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: March 20, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")