Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipality fears more building regulations
The Limburger
December 6, 2021 Monday
Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: NEW ENVIRONMENTAL LAW; Page 36
Length: 380 words
Byline: Yteke De Jong
Body


Housing construction will become impossible in the Netherlands when the new Environmental Act is introduced next year. Regional and local administrators already sounded the alarm last year, but hardly anything has changed. The noise regulations come in addition to a pile of other regulations that are already making housing construction more difficult.
This week the House of Representatives will discuss the housing crisis. 1 million homes must be added by 2030, but large-scale construction plans have not yet been made. Deputy Jeroen Olthof of the province of North Holland says that the construction of 70,000 homes in his region is at stake. He already sounded the alarm last year on behalf of four provinces and 56 municipalities, which have signed up for 380,000 homes.
Walking into walls
“Nothing has changed in the Environmental Act since we raised the alarm with the minister last year. We are hitting walls at the ministry. This is actually unnecessary regulation. Nothing will change for existing residents, but new construction will become practically impossible."
There are currently separate calculation rules for wind turbines, industry, railways, highways and aviation. These noisemakers will soon be added together in one new sum. The ministry states that it will soon be up to the municipalities to decide "what is acceptable" with regard to the noise. But it is already difficult to "motivate" construction projects.
Weighing of interests
For example, the Council of State recently sent the province of North Brabant back to the drawing board because a housing plan was insufficiently "motivated". "Better motivation means that municipalities explain this weighing of interests extra well. Additional measures in the environment, for example adapted facades or Quiet places such as courtyards or parks can help with motivation," said the Interior Ministry spokesperson. But according to administrators, it does not even come to the 'adapted facades', says councilor Guus Elkhuizen of the municipality of Nieuwkoop. "We have to build for all kinds of groups, but there is a cake of rules regarding nitrogen, sustainability, climate-adaptive construction, nature legislation and, to top it all off, now the accumulation of noise regulations in the Environmental Act. We have ended up in a situation where you as a driver have nowhere to go. That accumulation has to be removed."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 5, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")