Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The municipality wants to speed up the Molenhoek-Zuid construction plan
The Gelderlander
December 8, 2021 Wednesday
Rijk van Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2
Length: 317 words
Body


The housing plan in Molenhoek-Zuid must be treated as a priority. This is the opinion of the mayor and aldermen, who want to speed up the preparations because the new Environmental Act that will come into effect next year could cause delays.

Margriet Verschoor

Mook

Construction of the 250 homes in Molenhoek-Zuid can start in 2024, if all goes well. That has been taking long enough, says councilor Gertjan Wienhoven of the municipality of Mook en Middelaar, given the enormous need for houses. The council therefore wants the procedures to be completed as quickly as possible and Wienhoven is appealing to the municipal council.

The aim is to make the new zoning plan available for inspection before the summer, before the new Environmental Act comes into effect. Because little experience has been gained with this law, it can cause significant delays. The council is therefore now asked to adopt the next step in the procedure, the area vision, as a matter of urgency so that further work on the zoning plan can then proceed immediately. Changing the zoning plan is necessary to make building in the area possible.

According to the plans, the residential area should be located in the area between the Maas, the Rijksweg, the railway and the Bredeweg. Part of the territory is owned by the municipality, the rest is owned by three developers. The intention is for half of the homes to be affordable for young people and starters on the housing market.

The construction of homes in this area means a move for the allotment complex that is located there. The municipality has an alternative location in mind for this, on Cuijksesteeg behind Mook. According to the municipality, a different solution is being sought for the school garden for students at De Grote Lier primary school in Molenhoek, which is part of the allotment complex. Furthermore, some companies have to relocate.

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: December 7, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")