Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Discussion about 'Tielse' solar parks reopened
The Gelderlander
November 17, 2017 Friday
Rivierenland Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 1
Length: 357 words
Byline: MENNO PROVOOST
Highlight: Tiel municipal council wants two solar parks, building permits have already been granted. Opponents want good research.
Body


Two parks totaling 37 hectares in Kapel-Avezaath
Following the resistance of a group of residents of Kapel-Avezaath, Tiel politicians want to discuss the plans for two large solar parks in the village again. In any case, residents are closely involved in the plans.

This concerns two solar parks totaling 37 hectares on the site of fruit orchards. In September, a majority of the municipal council indicated that it was in favor of the parks, as long as they were properly integrated into the landscape.

Meanwhile, opponents are stirring. They lack good research, information and participation. More than 100 families signed a petition.

Permits were granted very quickly for the plan. These are valid for two years and, according to the municipality, are only intended to obtain subsidies. However, residents fear that they will still make construction possible.

Councilor Ben Brink states that absolutely no construction will take place with the temporary permit. He wants to form a guidance group with the residents that will be involved in the entire process. In addition, there are public meetings in the village. A preliminary design to make the plan possible would not be ready before the end of 2018. A consultation procedure and a council decision will then follow.

CDA and OD16 in particular, who were already against the plan, are calling for the plan to be canceled now. "If you know that the outcome is: 'we don't want it', should you even start?'', asks Robert van Galen (OD16).

According to Arjen Sijpkes (CDA), the decision was made based on incorrect information. “It has been stated that there was support in the village. An assessment that was wrong. That idea was uncritically accepted by the initiators and presented to us.”

According to Brink, it is part of the new environmental law that initiators put a plan on the municipality's agenda in this way. The municipality must have an open attitude. “You have to give a plan a chance. The fact that there is cooperation for the subsidy does not mean that we will ultimately allow it."

The plan will probably be discussed again in the next Spatial Committee.

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: November 16, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")