Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Arguing about tiny house and straw yurt
The Gelderlander
April 24, 2023 Monday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 284 words
Byline: TANJA KITS
Body


Should they be legalized or not, the tiny house and the straw yurt on the Geessinkweg in Winterswijk? The city council could not reach an agreement on Thursday.

Tanja Kits

Winterswijk

Legalizing something that was built illegally. Normally the municipality is done with this quickly: don't do it. But the proposal that was discussed in the city council on Thursday evening was slightly different.

There is a tiny house and straw yurt on a meadow on the grounds of the Aarde-Werk De Stegge nature center in Kotten. Without a permit. Owner Gea Boessenkool has been trying to get everything legalized for three years. She and her deceased husband have created a sustainable living system, which attracts many students from home and abroad. “We have already completed many versions of the plan. And we have already made many concessions to meet the objections from the neighborhood," she told the council members on Thursday.

With the new environmental law from 2019, much more is possible in rural areas. Zoning plans can therefore be tailor-made. A solution for Aarde-Werk De Stegge. Because the nature center, of international allure, is so unique that it requires a special zoning plan. One that would also mean there would be no fear of setting a precedent.

Councilor Gosse Visser had therefore proposed to grant the tiny house and the yurt a permit for ten years and to designate the company house on the site as a civilian home. In addition, individual buildings on the site would be given a different purpose.

But that went way too far for the Winterswijk council. The councilor was therefore instructed to re-examine the plan.

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: April 23, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")