Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Dangerous explosives and poor water quality: here too, magnetic fishing may soon be banned
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 20, 2023 Monday 02:38 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 428 words
Byline: Wout Dusseldorp
Body


Treasure hunting with a magnet in the water is prohibited in some places in East Gelre. According to the municipality, magnetic fishing is dangerous and polluting. That is why we check per location whether this is still allowed.
Oost Gelre wants to guarantee safety around the water and water quality.
With magnet fishing, treasure hunters pull a strong magnet on a rope across the bottom of a ditch or canal, for example. The hope is that hidden treasures will be found in this way.
Weapons and explosives
The loot is usually scrap iron, but sometimes people also brought safes, historical objects, weapons and explosives to the surface. And the last two categories in particular can cause danger.
The Defense Explosive Ordnance Disposal Service (EOD) previously warned that magnetic fishing is not without risk. The service is regularly called when an old explosive device is recovered from the water. In places where there was heavy fighting during the Second World War, such as Nijmegen, a ban has therefore already been imposed.
Bombings in Groenlo, Lichtenvoorde and Lievelde
Bombings were also carried out in Groenlo, Lichtenvoorde and Lievelde during that war. In addition, it is known that German soldiers in the region, as in the rest of the occupied Netherlands, have rid themselves of ammunition. To minimize the chance of these items being 'found' in the water, the municipality wants to ban magnetic fishing.
But according to the municipality, disturbing the soil is also undesirable. Pulling a heavy magnet over the bottom causes clouding. This can bring contamination to the surface, which can endanger water quality.
A concern shared by the Groenlose Angling Association (GHV). He submitted the request for a ban to the municipality. The GHV would like to see magnet fishing in the canal in Groenlo banned.
Not prohibited everywhere
Whether that will actually happen remains to be seen. The municipality has indicated that it wants to ban the hobby 'in a number of places'. This will be possible by explicitly including the ban in the new Environmental Act, which should come into effect in January next year.
It is still unknown exactly which places will be banned. “We have to figure out legally how we can implement this,” says a municipal spokesperson.
Magnet fishing is not prohibited in East Gelre. And there is no question of a total ban with the new arrangement, according to the municipality. “By being able to impose a ban per location, customization is possible,” says the spokesperson.

Load Date: November 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")