Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Health is more important than economic gain'
The Limburger
October 4, 2019 Friday
Roermond


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 6
Length: 493 words
Byline: BY PIETERNEL KELLENAERS
Body


 COUNTRYSIDE NEDERWEERT
 BACKGROUND ENVIRONMENTAL VISION
NEDERWEERT
A law that makes 26 other laws redundant has few frameworks. The environmental vision in the making therefore raises many questions. Both among farmers and citizens in Nederweert.
What is the definition of a landscape improvement? What does the municipality understand by circular agriculture, which has become a catch-all concept?
And why isn't particulate matter on the roads also tackled? For agricultural entrepreneurs in Nederweert, the preliminary draft for the environmental vision, the precursor to the environmental plan that each municipality draws up as an instrument of the national environmental law, raises many questions. Nederweert wants to make a major improvement in quality in the rural area, but what does that mean? "Health is more important than economic gain, that is what the piece exudes," says councilor Frank Voss, who is responsible for the environmental vision.
 Fewer rules
The new law also aims to ensure that not everything is clearly defined. Voss: "People want fewer rules and so we can create something outside the current rules, as is already happening thanks to an agricultural business contact officer who was hired specifically for this purpose.
The pig farm on the Banendijk, for example, where with Ons Boerenerf, a catering business with a meeting room provides an additional revenue model." The best solution will be examined on a case-by-case basis, as long as it ultimately benefits the rural area. This must be given more space for water and greenery, recreation and tourism. Permits are withdrawn from agricultural land that is not used as such and old empty stables must be demolished.
The way of working by entering into discussions with farmers and citizens in rural areas has already started in Nederweert, as in other municipalities, before the legislation had to be amended. Voss: "It is very important to create more mutual understanding because agricultural entrepreneurs often have the feeling that they are in a stupid corner.
They are blamed for manure fraud, roadside fraud and particulate matter problems.
We have to find a solution together because the agricultural sector is important in this region, it provides 14 percent of employment."
 Coaches
Coaches have been hired for fifteen municipalities in North and Central Limburg, who are subsidized by the province for farmers who want to quit. 58 people have registered for this in nine municipalities, thirteen of whom in Nederweert.
Existing schemes are also bearing fruit. For example, three pig farmers in Nederweert have stopped through the Ammonia Action Plan and nine more pig farmers and one poultry farmer will stop this year. Voss: "Now we will see how we can help the people who fall through the cracks when it comes to the rules." Nederweert is the first municipality in Central Limburg to discuss an initial draft for an environmental vision with the council.
The concept will be ready in Roermond in December and Weert has just started an action plan.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 4, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")