Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Health standard for odor policy'
The Gelderlander
June 13, 2015 Saturday
Maasland


Copyright 2015 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: ML
Length: 370 words
Body


LAND VAN CUIJK - It is not the acquired rights of farmers that should be central to new odor policy, but the protection of citizens against odors from stables.
 The collaborating health services GGD GHOR Netherlands advise this. Their position implies a radical break with existing principles and forces more action to reduce odor.
 The GGD position is contained in a memo addressed to the national working group set up by State Secretary Wilma Mansveld. The working group must advise on a new odor policy this summer. The reason is twofold: there is discussion about the Odor Act that has been in force since 2007 and the subject must become part of the new Environmental Act as of 2017. According to the GGD, the current rules give livestock farmers a lot of room to emit odor, much more than is accepted at factories. Local residents are left behind.
 The GGD now wants 'protecting health to be a shared goal' and that the new law is based on health research. Odor standards must be lowered and the minimum distance between stables and civilian homes must be increased. Livestock farmers should also be able to be obliged, just like industrial companies, to use certain technical innovations. Farmers are currently allowed to decide for themselves how they organize their businesses, as long as they keep their emissions within the applicable standards. According to the GGD, this system leads to 'standard filling' and provides 'no incentive' to work with the best available techniques.
 Although it seems logical that the GGD stands up for the health of citizens, insiders call its position in the odor debate striking. "I think it's courageous that they are making this public," says Geert Verstegen of the Brabant Environment Federation. The BMF, like the GGD, agricultural organization LTO and various governments, is represented in the working group set up by Mansveld.
 According to Loes Geelen, environmental and health advisor at the GGD in Tilburg, the health service has good reasons for its tough position: "Recent research shows that many more people suffer from odor nuisance than previously assumed. There is every reason to taking health interests as a starting point."

Load Date: June 13, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")