Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Civil servants at home after criticism of the Environmental Act'
The Limburger
June 10, 2022 Friday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: ON NON-ACTIVE; Page 11
Length: 331 words
Byline: Anp
Body


Five civil servants and self-employed people who work on the Environment Act from the Ministry of the Interior have been suspended or are at home sick. They have been severely pressured and intimidated.
They had to keep criticism of the Environmental Act to themselves, or portray developments too rosy. This is stated by Member of Parliament Saskia Kluit (GroenLinks). The five reported to her some time ago.
Together with other Senate factions, she is not only very concerned about this, but also wonders whether the information that the Senate has received so far about the Environmental Act is correct. Based on this information, the Senate will soon have to vote on the introduction date of the Environmental Act, which is being called the largest legislative operation since the late 1940s. Part of the Senate fears that it will have to make a decision based on incorrect or incomplete information. The Environmental Act bundles and simplifies all laws and regulations for the living environment and spatial planning. The introduction of the law has already been postponed several times. Minister Hugo de Jonge, as Minister for Spatial Planning responsible for the Environment Act, does not want any further delay.
Kluit does not know whether the five reports are the tip of the iceberg. She understands from a number of reporters that others have also been pressured or intimidated, but do not dare to report for fear of never being hired for assignments by the government again. "People should feel free to honestly say how things are going," says Kluit. This does not only apply to the Environmental Act. "There must always be room to express legitimate objections."
De Jonge has not received any signals, he previously informed the Senate. After a conversation with Kluit, Secretary General Maarten Schurink of the Interior has agreed to hold discussions within the organization about how critics are treated.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 9, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")