Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Goeree-Overflakkee is building the future
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 11, 2024 Thursday 05:23 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 277 words
Byline: Gert Onnink
Body


The municipality of Goeree-Overflakkee also wants to continue with the housing assignment in the new year. “With the Environmental Act just around the corner, many plans have certainly been discussed in the last six months,” said Mayor Ada Grootenboer in her New Year's speech.
She listed: the Hof van Lucard in Nieuwe-Tonge, the Nollepolder in Melissant, the old camping site in Oude-Tonge, the Kleine Boezem in Dirksland and the Bommelerbosch in Den Bommel.
“We also do this with an eye to the future. We know that our young people are forced to live with their parents for a long time due to the shortage of affordable rental and owner-occupied homes. There is no quick solution. It is a long-term process, creativity and perseverance.”
Steps are also being taken in education, with new construction and renovation of school buildings. The plans in Sommelsdijk, for OBS J.C. van Gent, neighborhood association De Zwaluw and Kibeo Childcare are starting to take shape. Construction should start this year.
Grootenboer pointed out the interplay between Ukrainians, asylum seekers and status holders and the inhabitants of the island. "I would like to pay a big compliment to all those local residents who, despite their doubts, are aware of the necessity, show understanding and hospitably welcome these new residents into our society."
Follow AD Rotterdams Dagblad now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.
Comment? Letters can be sent to our readers' editors, with first, last name and address (the latter not for publication). A reader letter is a maximum of 150 words and can be shortened. We do not post anonymous letters.

Load Date: January 11, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")