Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The gamble pays off, there is still a chance for solar parks in Raalte and IJsselmuiden: 'Very happy with it'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 12, 2024 Monday 06:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 537 words
Byline: Niek Megens
Body


Two plans for large-scale solar parks in Overijssel seemed unfeasible, but that has suddenly changed. The Environmental Act, which has been in force since January 1, leaves the door ajar again.
This is good news for the energy cooperative Endona in Raalte and the Groningen Novar, which has plans for a solar park in the Mastenbroekerpolder near IJsselmuiden.
Initially, things looked bad for these initiatives. Led by the BBB, the new coalition in Overijssel had decided to no longer allow solar parks on agricultural land. Because this intention had not yet been converted into new policy, politicians took a so-called preparatory decision.
Farmland
In this way, the government prevents activities that (possibly) conflict with new rules, such as solar parks on agricultural land in this case. With this decision, Overijssel wanted to prepare for the new situation. Anyone who came up with a plan for a solar park after October 12 was in principle too late.
Still, Endona and Novar submitted their requests after the October 12 deadline. Endona of 10.5 hectares. In addition, the Groningen company also wants to install a battery here for energy storage.
Endona applied for a permit for a project on the Stobbenbroekerweg in Raalte. The local energy cooperative wants to build a solar park in an agricultural area between four estates near Raalte. A total of 20 hectares of solar panels should be installed on three separate sites.
Protest
The decision to no longer process new applications was a shock to Endona. "We of course immediately protested against this," board member Loeck Tomassen said in November. In addition to the objection, Endona submitted a permit application, no matter how hopeless it seemed. That step appears to have worked out well.
Due to the introduction of the Environmental Act, Overijssel was forced to take a new preparatory decision on January 1. Because the Environmental Act does not regulate transitional law, the preparatory decision that came into effect on October 12 will lapse.
Plans for solar parks that have been submitted in the meantime must still be processed. “We are of course very happy with that,” says Endona chairman Edward Weening.
Object
It is not said that these solar parks will also be built. "The two initiatives that have been submitted in the meantime must be processed by the municipalities of Raalte and Kampen," says spokesperson Rick van Dijke on behalf of the province of Overijssel. "It is now their turn to test these plans against their own municipal policy." Local residents can then object or go to court.
It is not said that it will stop at these two initiatives. There is also a transitional arrangement in the making for solar parks that have just fallen by the wayside due to Overijssel's change of course. These must be projects that are already far along in the procedure. “For example, when there has already been a consultation evening or there is a draft decision,” Endona.
The new preparatory decision will lapse as soon as Overijssel politicians have definitively established the principles for generating solar energy. The Provincial Council is expected to decide on this at the end of March.

Load Date: April 20, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")