Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Green words require green actions
The Gelderlander
January 21, 2017 Saturday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 21
Length: 379 words
Byline: HAGAR ROIJACKERS
Body


If we want to fight pollution together, we must give our enforcers the tools to do their work properly. GroenLinks has been drawing attention to the growing problems and the limited financial commitment for years.
Through Samen Sterk in Brabant, the province of North Brabant works together with the police, the judiciary, governments and site managers to tackle violations in rural areas, such as drug and waste dumping.
The commitment to the program is under pressure, according to a view from the Brabant North Environment Agency.
Pollution goes further than just dumping. In our densely populated Brabant with 2.5 million inhabitants and 210,000 companies, it is a challenge to keep our environment healthy, now and in the future. The government must monitor this. In recent years, our Provincial Council has allocated millions of extra euros for permits to tax nature and the environment. There is 4 times less money available to check this. Supervision and enforcement are therefore much less important for council parties such as D66, GroenLinks concludes.
And that's not good. Citizens' confidence in the government largely depends on good supervision and sufficient enforcement, as is evident from the manure dialogues that we hold in our province.
What citizens often say they experience turns out to be true; Spontaneous compliance with environmental regulations by Brabant entrepreneurs fluctuates between 50 and 69 percent.
GroenLinks sees that our regional environmental services will face a major challenge in the coming years with regard to the Environment Act and the new Nature Conservation Act. Cutbacks in licensing, supervision and enforcement are then not obvious; Yet that is exactly what our provincial government plans to do, as is evident from the 2017 provincial budget. GroenLinks wanted to stop the cuts; this received no support from D66 and the rest of the coalition.
We hope that D66 and the other council parties will dare to convert their green intentions, of which I have no doubt, into sufficient financial support to stop pollution after the House of Representatives elections. And together we can actually make our beautiful Brabant safer, cleaner and more livable.
is a member of Parliament for GroenLinks Brabant and spokesperson for nature and agriculture

Load Date: January 21, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")