Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Great surprise at change in announcements from the municipality of Olst-Wijhe: 'They are shutting us out'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 27, 2023 Monday 05:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 479 words
Byline: Regien Klein Hegeman
Body


Open a newspaper and read the municipal announcements at your leisure. In the municipality of Olst-Wijhe, this will be a thing of the past as of January 1, 2024. From next year, matters such as permits will only be published digitally. This decision is disappointing to older people. The municipality explains why it does this this way.
A neighbor who wants to renovate his house, a change in a zoning plan or the felling of avenue trees. These official announcements can be found weekly in the local door-to-door newspapers in Olst-Wijhe. Free and for nothing. These free announcements will remain, but no longer via the newspaper.
As of January 1, 2024, the messages can only be found digitally on the government.nl website. This requires a computer, laptop, tablet or mobile phone. And that is exactly what the older generation is falling for. Not everyone in this target group has digital skills.
The reactions to the decision of the municipality of Olst-Wijhe are not mild. It would exclude residents, while there is a need for connection.
"I think information from the government to citizens is very important," says Gerhard Aberson from Olst, who read the message with great surprise. "What if a neighbor or someone else in the street wants to post something that you are not happy with at all? You are missing that information.”
"Moreover, many elderly people feel reluctant to ask for help. That they have to go to the library to get help. Some are not very mobile at all, let alone have internet. How easy is it to read information in the newspaper that arrives on your doorstep for free?”
Municipality of Olst-Wijhe explains why
The municipality has now noticed that residents are not left cold. In a response, the municipality explains that this decision is related to the new Environmental Act that will come into effect on January 1, 2024.
This law regulates everything for the space where people live and work. The law also changes what the municipality must publish and when.
For example, an inspection period starts on the date of announcement. That can only be one date. The IJssel messages now appear every Wednesday. If the municipality places the announcements in the IJssel messages retroactively, confusion may arise about the inspection/objection period. This may have legal consequences and cause delays for the applicant.
To prevent this, the municipality publishes the permits digitally every day under the Omgevingsweg. By publishing everything online, all information can be found in one place. That is unequivocal and clear. This way there can be no confusion about accuracy, completeness and inspection and objection periods.
It is unlikely that the municipality will reverse this restriction. However, it advises residents to ask for help from a family member or good acquaintance or, if they have access to the internet, to register for the e-mail service.

Load Date: November 27, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")