Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Great concerns about little owls in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 27, 2023 Wednesday 12:35 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 416 words
Byline: Raymond de Frel
Body


It depends on how you look at it. If you compare the number of little owls counted in Zeeland Flanders in 2019 with this year's figures, you say: that is not disappointing. But if you compare the last count with the peak year of 2003? Then you'll be shocked.
Nearly thirty members of nature associations De Steltkluut and 't Duumpje combed the region this year to map the number of little owls. They do that once every four years. 283 little owl territories have now been counted. That's eight more than in 2019. Good news, right? There are even slightly more than the researchers previously suspected. But if you compare it with 2003 (419 places), it appears that the little owl is feeling less and less happy in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. Then there is a decrease of 32 percent, or 136 territories.
Farms against the plain
West Zeeuws-Vlaanderen in particular stands out in a negative sense. There the number of territories decreased by almost half. In the east of the region, the number of territories fell by eighteen percent. The researchers believe that this decline is largely due to damage to the landscape; More and more yards in rural areas are losing their original function. In other words: old, abandoned farms are being demolished or given a different, recreational purpose. And these are precisely places where little owls are happy. It is expected that this trend will continue, for example in the expansion of residential areas.
Little or no attention is paid to the presence of little owls when demolishing buildings and cutting down farmyard plants in rural areas and expanding residential areas. The supervision and enforcement of the Nature Conservation Act (and soon the Environmental Act) is currently insufficient, 't Duumpje and De Steltkluut conclude in their research report. And if there are new plans? Then governments should call on ecological expertise sooner, the two nature clubs believe.
Stone martens and jackdaws
Not only the wrecking ball is a threat to the little owl; the animal also suffers from natural enemies. Young little owls are regularly grabbed shortly after fledging by cats, dogs, jackdaws and the beech martens that are advancing in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. The latter two are targeting the 121 nest boxes that have been installed in the past four years. Despite this threat, the hives have a positive impact on the little owl population.

Load Date: December 27, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")