Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Hague' Hayke can now sink his teeth into the abundance of rules
The Gelderlander
June 26, 2014 Thursday
Nijmegen City


Copyright 2014 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: 3_NY_OMG
Length: 415 words
Byline: FRANCINE WILDENBORG
Body


by Francine Wildenborg
 THE HAGUE/NIJMEGEN - Nervously, VVD member Hayke Veldman straightens his orange tie in the wings of the House of Representatives. A few minutes later, his boyhood dream came true: becoming a parliamentarian in The Hague.
 Yesterday, the Nijmegen VVD faction leader was officially sworn in. In January, a seat became available with the Liberals in The Hague, but Veldman then thought the municipal elections were more important. Now that there is another opportunity to make the leap - and it has become apparent that he has not become an alderman in Nijmegen - he seizes it with both hands.
 Dressed in a light gray suit, Veldman fits seamlessly into the Hague plush. Politically speaking, things will also turn out well, the 44-year-old Nijmegen resident expects.
 Although he will no longer be the face of the VVD in Nijmegen, but one of the 41 liberal MPs, he is not afraid of invisibility. "I will be given the spatial planning portfolio and in particular the environmental law."
 Sounds technical, but Veldman knows how to translate this quickly as a municipal councilor: "It's about making it easier for people to apply for permits."
 Prime Minister Mark Rutte previously called this new law very important: by scrapping rules (26 laws become one law), large construction projects can be completed much faster and 'many more people at work'.
 In short, not just any file. And that means a lot of homework for this summer. "I know something about this theme from my work as a municipal councilor, but I will really have to delve into the details. There is a very large ream of paper waiting for me," says Veldman with a broad smile.
 After the recess, will the Nijmegen resident live in The Hague during the week, but leave the Waalstad? "Never. I was born in Zoetermeer, grew up in Rosmalen, but I have been living in Nijmegen for 25 years this summer and it will remain that way."
 He had to miss the council meeting there yesterday. The chairman immediately understood, because how often does a Nijmegen resident become a Member of Parliament? The last was the current mayor Hubert Bruls, who worked for the CDA in Parliament until 2005. After the official swearing-in, Veldman accepted the congratulations from his new colleagues, beaming.
 His wife is just as radiant. She will have to miss him more often from now on, just like the cat in their house in the Nijmegen Lower City. Being a member of parliament takes a lot of time. "But my wife also comes here," he assures.
 Veldman will probably say goodbye to the Nijmegen municipal council on July 9.

Load Date: June 25, 2014, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")