Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Halderberg VVD member Hans van Gurchom is leaving the council after six years, but a successor has already been found
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 23, 2023 Saturday 09:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 276 words
Byline: Inge Jacobs
Body


OUDENBOSCH - Halderberg VVD councilor Hans van Gurchom is resigning from the council. He will be succeeded by Merlijn Crébolder from February. Van Gurchom has been on the municipal council since 2018 and has mainly been concerned with spatial planning, housing construction, safety and the environmental law.
"My motivation for entering politics at the time was to contribute to a future-proof Halderberge, especially from the physical domain. I really enjoyed doing that, I learned a lot from it and was able to make a difference in a number of moments,” he says.
'I'll grab the opportunity with both hands'
His successor, Merlijn Crébolder, is not entirely new to the council. She started as a committee member after the elections in 2022 and has since then mainly focused on the same portfolio together with Van Gurchom. “The fact that I now have the opportunity to become a councilor is something I will grab with both hands to make Halderberge even better,” she says. Crébolder will be appointed councilor during the council meeting of February 8.
For the local VVD, Van Gurchom's departure means that the party is losing one of its mainstays, says group leader Jean-Marie Frerichs. “With his expertise in the physical domain, he was an absolute added value to our team.”
Many newcomers
There have been several changes in the Halderberg council in recent months. In September, Ghasem Nosrati temporarily left the council due to the birth of his child. A month later, Margo Bol decided to say goodbye and citizen councilor Aron de Hoop (PvdA-GroenLinks) also recently left, due to a move from the municipality of Halderberge.

Load Date: December 23, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")