Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Hands off the moraine'
The Gelderlander
March 3, 2022 Thursday
Rijk van Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 389 words
Byline: THED MAAS
Highlight: The moraine near Beek must be handled with care. If construction takes place, Berg en Dal politicians want a big say in the pie. And building proposals must in any case be discussed by the municipal council.
Body


Politics wants to tighten the reins
Thed Maas

Brook

Various political parties (Voor Berg en Dal, D66, CDA and GJS) have submitted a proposal (amendment) to this effect. Because politicians have recently felt overwhelmed by decisions by the mayor and aldermen. Not just politics, by the way. Many residents also sometimes wonder in bewilderment 'how on earth this could have happened'.

Toon de Jong (Voor Berg en Dal) mentions the house that was built almost against the cemetery (a protected monument) on De Geest in Beek and several new villas on the Rijksstraatweg. In both cases, the mayor and aldermen used their authority (the crumb arrangement) to deviate from the zoning plan. "That house next to the cemetery is much larger than the zoning plan allowed," says De Jong. "And those villas are beautiful, but higher than allowed according to the zoning plan."

'Sequential situations in which the council uses these powers together lead to greater developments, which lead to a deviation from what was originally intended,' the parties state in their amendment. And: 'We want to be able to influence the protection of what is dear to us'.

The issue is also current because new legislation is coming, the so-called Environmental Act. The aim is to simplify regulations for building buildings. This is done, among other things, by giving the mayor and aldermen further powers to allow deviations. However, politicians want to tighten the reins a bit by clearly indicating in advance where this is not allowed, such as the moraine.

"We want the relaxations resulting from the new environmental law not to apply everywhere," says De Jong. "We want the municipal council to have the final say in certain areas." He also mentions the plan for the construction of a villa on the Sterrenberg in Beek. The initiator wants to move the villa a little bit into the forest. That's where nature's destination lies. The mayor and aldermen want to agree to it. De Jong: “The zoning plan allows construction there. We are not going to change that. But if something needs to be adjusted, it must be decided by the municipal council."

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: March 2, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")