Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=216 apartments will be demolished in the Oosterhout district: this will be the result
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 12, 2024 Friday 06:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 600 words
Byline: Palko Peeters
Body


OOSTERHOUT - Nine outdated flats in the Oosterheide district will make way for new construction in the coming years. A major metamorphosis, for which Thuisvester is budgeting tens of millions. But how does the housing association deal with residents' concerns? “Then I have to sigh for a moment, yes.”
A total of 216 apartments will be demolished at five locations in the Oosterhout district of Oosterheide. Sustainable new construction will return in these places, accounting for approximately the same number of apartments or slightly more. This has an impact on the current residents. How does that work? We ask development manager Rinze van der Ploeg and vital neighborhoods coordinator Yvonne Balemans from Thuisvester.
Van der Ploeg: “We want to make people enthusiastic. But there are always residents who have difficulty with it. It's about their living environment, which affects everyone personally.”
The neighborhood approach in Oosterheide (8,500 inhabitants) was launched in 2018. The flats to be demolished date from the 1960s, are outdated and cannot be made sustainable. Now six years later there is a design for new construction on Boerhaavelaan and a location sketch for three residential blocks to be built on Anemoonstraat/Ranonkelstraat. This was preceded by the necessary resident sessions; browsing models and maquettes.
Suggestions about building height, integration, parking and greenery have been taken into account by Thuisvester where possible. But the attendance was always sparse, with a handful of people. Until the presentation at the end of March of the new building on Boerhaavelaan, which 'suddenly' attracted about fifty residents.
A nice turnout, but critical voices come too late. Balemans: "It's a shame, because we would like to include people in the process. We want to give the neighborhood a boost and preferably get started as quickly as possible.”
Headlights shining inwards
Van der Ploeg: “Participation and participation are paramount, especially with the new Environmental Act. But if, after years of preparation and consultation sessions, someone starts talking about the headlights shining in... Then I have to sigh." He even had to raise his voice the other day, saying that this is a passable station.
There is still a hurdle to overcome: five exotic American oaks have to be fell at the Boerhaavelaan location on the side of the Beneluxweg. Thuisvester is discussing this with the nature clubs. Van der Ploeg is not completely confident and fears delays. “The trees are at the end of their lifespan. I understand, but in good decency we cannot go back to the drawing board. We are also bothered by road noise from the Beneluxweg. It is fitting and measuring. At some point you have to move on. You can never please everyone,” he also hopes for support from local politicians.
Healthy mix in the neighborhood
At Anemoonstraat, bumps such as the LPG station on the Europaweg and the road noise have been overcome. Here the people are mainly positive and enthusiastic. When construction takes place: "Before we properly build, it will go towards 2026. And then we should not go to the Council of State."
Locations 3 (Palestrinalaan), 4 (Ranonkelstraat) and 5 (Strausshof, see map below) have yet to be started. Construction will continue here until 2030. According to Balemans, we are still looking for variation in the new construction; social rent and medium-priced rent and purchase: "For a healthy mix in the neighborhood."
Van der Ploeg: “People have been on the waiting list for a rental home for ten years or more. We also do it for this group. But we cannot achieve neighborhood renewal alone. If we work together we can achieve a lot.”

Load Date: April 12, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")