Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Fear: no longer protected against high water
The Limburger
January 21, 2023 Saturday
Venlo|Venray


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: WATER BOARD ERRORS; Page 6
Length: 1031 words
Byline: Angela Janssens
Body


Residents of Roerdalen are afraid of the Roer. They see on maps from the water board and the province that land near their houses is no longer protected against high water. For example, the Limburg Water Board wants to correct its own mistake, which could cause Het Steenen Huys Castle to get wet.
The water board and the province of Limburg will let us drown if the Roer floods. We see that land near our houses has suddenly been designated as an inundation area, which means that it is allowed to flood here so that it remains dry elsewhere. Can we still insure our houses without protection against the water? Can we place sandbags or emergency dikes in front of our doors? Or are our possessions sacrificed so that the Ruhr does not flood other houses elsewhere? So many questions. No one can or will answer."
Har Allers (Melick), Ben Berben and John Akkerman (Vlodrop) fear the next flood. They are convinced that the province and water board have designated new inundation areas near their homes. This causes confusion, unrest and anger. Inquiries to the Limburg Water Board initially only increased the confusion. "No new areas have been designated as inundation areas for the Roer in Vlodrop and Melick," it says. A statement, the water board emphasizes, that "is factually correct at the moment."
Zero protection
However, residents point to maps of policy documents that are still 'hanging above the market'. They belong, among other things, to plans linked to the Environmental Act. This does not apply yet, but will come into effect on July 1. In any case, on maps in plans from various authorities that will soon apply, the protection degree at Het Steenen Huys Castle, the 'Area between the Bridges' and 'Klifbergerweg roundabout' in Vlodrop has been reduced to 1:0 years. That means zero protection. A map in the Limburg Draft Environmental Regulation also states that there is 'no chance of flooding or water nuisance' at Het Steenen Huys Castle.
Wrong water board
And while the Roer was meters high in the house of the three worried citizens during the 2021 flood. The castle alone suffered six tons of damage, says resident John Akkerman, who at the end of 2022 filed an objection to the Limburg High Water Disaster Management Plan 2022-2025 - Version 5.0. He takes every opportunity to turn the tide. His objection states: 'Due to the water damage I still cannot live in my house, I go to victim support for psychological complaints due to stress during and after the flood and I have skin and athlete's foot. I stood in polluted water for days.”
Director Josette van Wersch of the Limburg Water Board admits that there is something wrong with the protection level at the castle. “The water board made a mistake there in 2014. That land belongs to the flood area of ​​the Roer and has always been an inundation area." In 2014, the water board wanted to build a dike near the castle. Van Wersch: "There was so much objection to that at the time that the dike was not built."
However, in 2014, in anticipation of the construction of the dike, an employee of the water board adjusted some maps to the situation that would have arisen with the dike. If the dike had been built, the castle would have been protected for 1:100 years. Without a dike, the degree of protection remains what it has always been according to Van Wersch: 1:0 years. Van Wersch: "We won't change anything there. We are only moving a border on a map in our marker to restore the situation before 2014." Citizens can still submit views against this adjustment, which cannot be called a change.
The fact that buildings are located (again) in an inundation area or outside the dike due to such a border correction can have consequences for residents, because according to the Association of Insurers, private houses in areas outside the dike are generally not insured. Van Wersch does not know how this works from an insurance perspective, she says. Paul Koopman of the Dutch Association of Insurers admits that this is a difficult matter. “Not every area outside the dike is by definition uninsurable. As for inundation areas: if the risk does not change compared to the old situation, insurance does not have to be a problem. But every case is different." When it comes to high water, citizens often hear that 'every case is different'. A breeding ground for anger and suspicion.
Province errors
For example, after some digging and digging it turns out that the protection in the 'Area between the Bridges' and 'Klifbergerweg roundabout' in Vlodrop has not been set to zero by the water board, but by the province of Limburg. "We made mistakes there and we are going to correct them," a provincial spokesperson said. Because the residents of Roerdalen have seen it well. Maps that will apply as soon as the Environmental Act comes into effect show that the province is dropping all protection for some plots in 'Buurtschap Tusschen de Bruggen' in Vlodrop. "An error that is expected to have occurred in a few places in Limburg, although we do not yet know exactly where." The province has committed to detecting and correcting all errors before the Environmental Act comes into effect.
Van Wersch, in turn, states that citizens may at all times protect their own home and hearth against the rising water. “We count on citizens' self-reliance. But the water board must always take the bigger picture into account. If we allow protective measures for property A, they may not cause additional nuisance at location B. That requires customization." Har Allers becomes restless about all the ifs, buts and governments that push boundaries. In 2021, he had his living room full of water. "Three hundred bottles of wine. Gone. And then all the emotions. You don't hear anyone talking about it. "
Because Van Wersch may say that citizens can protect their own home and hearth, but she leaves open the question as to how far people can go in this regard. "In an inundation area we cannot say in advance: 'This is allowed and this is absolutely not.' Anyone who wants to install flood defense measures in an inundation area must apply for a permit from us. Sometimes we can't grant it."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")