Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Tougher approach to wood burning
The Gelderlander
September 21, 2023 Thursday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 436 words
Byline: MAARTEN REITH
Highlight: The use of wood stoves to heat homes is further discouraged in Nijmegen. The municipality will intensify its approach to this form of air pollution.
Body


Nijmegen scraps subsidy for filters and invests money in information
This mainly means providing information about how owners can improve their heating behavior.

The municipality of Nijmegen has had a policy of discouraging wood burning for some time. According to councilor Tobias van Elferen, this course will be strengthened. "There is no such thing as healthy heating," he says.

In a letter to the municipal council, the municipal council describes the follow-up approach for wood burning. 'National research reports show that wood smoke causes approximately a quarter of all particulate matter emissions in the Netherlands. This has a relevant influence on local air quality and associated health effects," the council writes. 'That is why we continue to discourage the burning of wood. We want to focus more on this next year with a subsidy scheme for the entire city, which is only intended for the removal of wood flues.'

According to Van Elferen, another subsidy scheme, which allowed owners of wood-burning stoves to install certain filters in the flue, has been put to an end. "These filters only work if they are properly maintained, but that often does not happen and then they are of no use," he says.

However, there will be extra money for campaigns to make owners aware of their heating behavior. This appears to have a major influence on the nuisance that people can experience from burning wood. "A professionally installed stove and good smoke output, regular maintenance, use of suitable fuel materials and taking weather conditions into account reduce nuisance and undesirable amounts of emissions," the municipal council writes.
'Difficult to measure'
The municipality is aware of people who are bothered by wood smoke, but also points out that wood burning nuisance is difficult to measure and therefore difficult to enforce. 'There is not yet a national consensus on measuring methods and assessment frameworks to determine nuisance and harmfulness. This can be frustrating for people who suffer from poor air quality due to wood smoke," the council reports.

Residents can report nuisance via the national website stookwijzer.nu. During the past heating season, more than half of the total number of nuisance reports came from a limited number of addresses. The municipality offers neighborhood mediation to residents who suffer from wood smoke.

Nationally, it is currently being considered whether a (partial) ban on wood burning can be introduced via the Environmental Act. The municipality is monitoring this development.
These filters work if they are properly maintained, but often that does not happen

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: September 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")