Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Heerlen opens building permit counter
The Limburger
May 27, 2022 Friday
Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5
Length: 322 words
Byline: Jos Adriaens
Body


From next summer, residents of Heerlen who are going to build or renovate can physically contact the municipality for help with arranging permits, for example. Until now this was only possible digitally.
The counter for residents is housed in the new city office on Geleenstraat and will open on July 14. There are consultation hours at this Environment Desk every Thursday from 9:00 AM to 12:00 PM and from 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM. However, an appointment must be made in advance. A similar service remains available for entrepreneurs through the Ondernemershuis.
Complicated
A lot of information can be found on the municipality's website. "But those laws and rules often prove complicated for people. In this way we want to improve our service to citizens," says councilor Adriane Keulen (Public Services, OPH).
With the new Environmental Act, which will come into effect on January 1, 2023, many regulations will change if, for example, people want to build a home or renovate their home. They can go to the counter with questions or to apply directly for a permit, for example.
Anticipate
The municipality of Heerlen consciously chooses to open the counter in mid-July. So that residents, but also civil servants, can anticipate the new law in good time, which will come into effect six months later. After four months, the experiences with the new Environment Desk will be evaluated. If necessary, procedures and opening hours will then be adjusted.
Keulen: "This counter is the next step in our policy to continuously improve services." Heerlen, for example, has also made it easier to apply for parking permits.
There are regular complaints from both society and the municipal council about the procedures surrounding permits. The municipality of Heerlen reports that an average of 217 permits for construction or renovation will be granted in the period from 2018 to 2021.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 26, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")