Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Heerlen wants to cherish monuments
The Limburger
January 23, 2021 Saturday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 10
Length: 385 words
Byline: Frank Benneker
Body


The municipality of Heerlen makes a list of approximately fifty buildings that can be classified as municipal monuments. Alderman Jordy Clemens (Heritage, SP) announced this to the municipal council. Work is being done on a heritage regulation that should be completed this spring.
Clemens acknowledges that the municipality has a lot of catching up to do when it comes to the municipality's monument policy. "We want to make the conservation obligation stricter in the new heritage regulation. With the current rules, we cannot oblige the owner of a municipal monument to carry out maintenance." Clemens wants input from the entire city for the list of municipal monuments. "Citizens can also submit a request to the municipality to have a specific building on the list. listed as a monument."
Heerlense School
The alderman updated the city council this week on the state of affairs surrounding the Heerlense School. This document adopted by the council regulates how the municipality deals with its existing buildings and how the city's architectural history can be involved in new construction projects. The three main goals are identified: preventing unwanted demolition, setting up a dialogue about heritage in the city and anchoring these principles in the Environmental Act. Since the middle of last year, Heerlen has been putting more effort into identifying municipal monuments, in addition to the 154 national monuments in the municipality. Since June, the Kaldeborn stadium and the mining stone mountain in the Sibelco quarry have been designated as municipal monuments, bringing the number to six.
Rabobank building
A seventh municipal monument is on its way. The municipality has submitted an application to grant monument status to the former Rabobank building on the Promenade in the city center. The building was built in 1969 as an office of the then Boerenleenbank. "Despite several renovations and vacancies, the original design, layout and finish in both the office and the homes have largely remained intact, giving it a high building historical value," the municipality reports in the application.
Clemens expects that a final decision on Heerlen's seventh municipal monument will be made at the end of this month or early February.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 22, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")