Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=After months, Hellendoorn can finally move forward at full speed again: These are the new aldermen
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 16, 2024 Tuesday 02:33 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 339 words
Byline: Han Haveman
Body


Jan van den Bosch (59) from Ermelo and Lia de Waard-Oudesluijs (53) from Ernst are appointed aldermen of the municipality of Hellendoorn. This will happen at an extra council meeting on April 23. The council is now complete again.
The official appointment of both candidate councilors is only a formality, as they were proposed by the selection committee, which included all but one party in the council. Van den Bosch and De Waard-Oudesluijs were unanimously selected from no fewer than 25 candidates.
'Driven and enthusiastic'
Both candidates have extensive administrative experience and, according to the selection committee, are 'driven and enthusiastic' to start working in Hellendoorn at the beginning of May. Both had previously been aldermen in another municipality.
Van den Bosch (CDA) lives in Ermelo and is currently a senior advisor at the Antea Group. From 2007 to 2018, he was an alderman in his hometown and his portfolio included spatial planning, housing construction and the Environmental Act.
De Waard-Oudesluijs (Christian Union) lives in Emst and is currently Director of Care at WZU Veluwe. Between 2018 and 2023 she was a councilor in the municipality of Epe. She has extensive experience in the field of healthcare and welfare and the social domain.
Interim departure
The appointment of two new aldermen became necessary due to the interim resignation of Gea Oord and Peter Lage Venterink. This had everything to do with the political and administrative problems in Hellendoorn. The two remaining councilors Annemarie Dubbink and Egbert Nijenbanning and mayor Jorrit Eijbersen then divided the tasks among themselves, but that soon turned out not to be a workable situation.
At the end of January, the council started looking for two new aldermen, who had to have extensive administrative experience and had no ties with Hellendoorn. This was recorded in the profile sketch on March 5. The recruitment was carried out by Bestman Board & Management. After the appointment of the two new aldermen, the council will redistribute the portfolios.

Load Date: April 17, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")