Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Reclassification is inevitable
The Limburger
October 13, 2020 Tuesday
entire editionVenloVenrayRoermondWTMaastrichtSittard-GeleenHeerlenKL


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: JAN GULIKERS; Page 45
Length: 667 words
Body


The phenomenon of reorganization has recently received a lot of attention in the municipality of Meerssen. It has even led to the resignation of three councilors, because they made it known that they saw redistricting as the only solution to tackle the municipality's financial problems. However, various parties in the municipal council have a taboo on the infamous H-word. When the term came up, a fuss immediately broke out. The course had to and would remain independent. The question is whether that course is wise for a small municipality. There are more reasons than just the financial situation that make a municipal reorganization sensible and even inevitable. This not only applies to Meerssen, but to other small municipalities.
Patchwork
Currently, South Limburg, a relatively small area, consists of no fewer than sixteen municipalities. Wouldn't a future with three, at most four, municipalities instead of the current administrative patchwork offer more prospects for residents? Such an increase in scale offers great opportunities for greater administrative power and a better negotiating position in The Hague. Small municipalities have little or nothing to contribute there, but large municipalities do - it's that simple.
With the increasingly complex tasks facing municipalities, such as tasks in the field of the social domain, the environmental law and the energy transition, the question is whether and how small municipalities can carry them out correctly. That is not a criticism or blame for the civil servants - the civil service organization in a small municipality is very modest and therefore very vulnerable. Specific expertise is lacking and must be purchased. Municipal authorities try to solve this by working together through joint arrangements. However, this leads to the necessary bureaucracy and complexity and therefore does not always lead to lower costs or greater administrative power. This administrative power is present in larger municipalities.
Money box
The current financial situation of various municipalities is under great pressure, especially from the social domain. It is difficult, sometimes even virtually impossible, for municipalities to balance their budgets in a decent manner.
The province's rules prescribe that structural expenditure must be covered by structural income, i.e. not through a dip in the general reserves, the municipal piggy bank. That's where the problem lies. This is often not possible unless the municipal council is prepared to significantly increase property tax and other local levies or to cut facilities. The former will affect citizens' finances, while the latter will lead to a deterioration of the quality of life. Large municipalities also have this problem, but there are more buttons to turn to solve these problems.
Identity
In addition, small municipalities face another serious risk: The Hague plans to reform the Municipal Fund. This means that this pot of money will be distributed differently. From 2022, small municipalities will receive a lower amount per inhabitant, large municipalities more. It is possible that these plans will change due to protests from smaller municipalities, but even if the discount is halved or the redistribution is postponed for another year, the small municipalities will have a hard time. Now small municipalities, just like that Gallic village of Asterix and Obelix, can continue to fight to maintain their independence, but the question is whether that will yield anything. I think it would be better to go along with this development and take advantage of opportunities that arise. And yes, I think that is possible while maintaining the identity of the centers of a small municipality. Because identity lies in people, not in administrative bodies.
Jan Gulikers is a former councilor of the municipality of Meerssen.
And yes, I think that is possible while maintaining the identity of the centers of a small municipality. Because identity resides in people, not in administrative bodies.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 12, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")