Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The dilemma of the Roermond council
The Limburger
December 4, 2020 Friday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; protest free field; Page 5
Length: 510 words
Byline: Gertie Driessen
Body


Rarely has a relatively small construction plan been discussed in Roermond politics for longer than about Wonen Zuid's plan to build 74 social rental homes (76 old ones will be demolished) on the Minister Bongaertsstraat in the Vrijveld district. An 'instrument' that has never been used was even deployed: a hearing at the end of November by the Spatial Planning Committee in which all stakeholders were allowed to explain their positions once again. During the meeting of the same committee on Wednesday, there was no less than three hours of discussion about it. And politics is still divided as to whether the plan is ready for the council agenda.
The reason: a number of very well-informed local residents who do not like the construction plan and bombard the political parties with numerous documents. The green vision, the vision for the future, national policy, provincial policy, regional housing market research, the climate, citizen participation, the new Environmental Act. Just about everything is included to demonstrate that the construction plan is flawed.
Families
In essence, the objections of the fifteen households boil down to the same thing. The number of buildings is increasing (no more height is being built). A piece of public greenery with a monumental tree disappears. There will be more parking spaces and new roads. Last but not least: more people are coming to live in the area, because 42 family homes are planned where previously this was purely senior housing. The objectors have particular difficulty with this target group, families who are on the social minimum.
These are valid arguments in themselves, which the local residents have packaged in a very well-developed legal story. Even left-wing parties such as SP and SPR, which normally shout for more social rent, had nothing good to say about the plan on Wednesday.
Interests
But it is the council's job to continue to see the forest for the trees. In fact, there is only one question facing each party. What weighs more? The interests of fifteen households? Or the interests of families with a social minimum who have been waiting for a house for years? That is the other side of the coin, as the tenants' association of Wonen Zuid points out. On average, 335 responses are received for a family home. There is no social housing for families in Vrijveld yet.
Living South is now tired of the bickering. The plan has already been adjusted once after consultation with the neighborhood and two houses have been deleted. According to the corporation, there is no more in terms of financial feasibility. If the council votes against the zoning plan in December, the 76 current, dated houses and apartments will be renovated. And the elderly residents - many of whom left with pain in their hearts and fifteen of whom would like to return to the new building - were moved for nothing.
That is the decision that the council must make. There is no point in returning to the negotiating table, as most of the committee advocated on Wednesday. The positions are too far apart for that. And citizen participation doesn't help that either.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 3, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")