Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The 'green past' of the leader of the CDA
The Gelderlander
March 10, 2021 Wednesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 13
Length: 759 words
Highlight: The childhood of CDA party leader Wopke Hoekstra took place among the oaks, beeches and white acacias of the chic Lyceum quarter in Zeist. But Hoekstra really wanted to go to Utrecht for secondary school.
Body


He could have chosen the Christian Lyceum, just as fellow villager Sigrid Kaag had done fourteen years earlier. For starter Wopke Hoekstra, that would have literally been around the corner. Just like his primary school, the Zeister School Association: from his parental home he cycles up the phenomenal Verlengde Slotlaan, with two double rows of American oak trees, planted in 1920, between the roadway and the cycle paths, and two minutes later enters the schoolyard. Then his world would have been green, chic and privileged almost every day. Because that is the Lyceumkwartier, on the eastern edge of Zeist. None of the current leaders of the political parties lived as beautifully as the leader of the CDA as a child and teenager.
Friends
But Wopke did not go to the high school in Zeist. Like his sister and hundreds of other children from the towns in the Utrecht area, from Vianen to Maarssen, from Vleuten to Soesterberg, he cycled for about an hour every day to go to one of the two categorical grammar schools in the city. Small schools with a good name. Remarkable for a boy in a Protestant family: he did not choose the Christian Gymnasium, but the public Stedelijk Gymnasium, two schools with a healthy rivalry.

A choice that, according to his father who always lived in this leafy part of Zeist - son Wopke chose Bussum with his family - was influenced by his friends. A group of five or six boys and girls from his primary school chose the Stedelijk, and cycling the twelve kilometers there and twelve kilometers back together every day and discovering that new, different world in Utrecht was really nice. Then no religious lessons for young Wopke, who went to church or Sunday school anyway.
Threats
"The preservation of greenery has always been our greatest concern here, because that determines the face of Zeist and certainly that of our neighborhood," says Sjoerd Schaafsma, chairman of the Association Lyceumkwartier. There are always threats, such as the new Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2022. "Mr. Hoekstra's party wants to have one million new homes built, and we would also notice some of that here, of course. Pieces of forest are already disappearing to make way for homes," says Schaafsma.

'Mr Hoekstra's party', the CDA, is not one of the favorites in the Lyceumkwartier. It is not surprising that in the last elections for the Provincial Council, the VVD won no less than 42 percent of the votes in the district. The houses and therefore the wealth of the residents make this preference more than logical. The houses, most of them detached, some semi-detached, such as those of the Hoekstra family, almost all sell for more than a million euros and some small 'palaces' are worth many times that.

The price of the house also includes the surrounding area. In addition to the American oaks on the Verlengde Slotlaan, common beeches, pedunculate oaks and white acacias, one even older and higher than the other, dominate the green avenues of the Lyceumkwartier. Wopke Hoekstra (1975) ended up there as a toddler, when his parents - mother was a pedagogue, father was a doctor - moved from Bennekom forty kilometers away to Zeist.
Cultural history
The only disadvantage was that there was no Remonstrant church where the liberal Protestant family was a member; the alternative became the Mennonite church in Zeist, and the Sunday school for the three children of the family. And that was also not far from the house on Socrateslaan; Sunday also brought a pleasant trip through those avenues on the east side of the village.

"A neighborhood with cultural history," says Schaafsma. “Most of the beautiful avenues you see here used to be the visual axes of Slot Zeist. And there are still trees in the neighborhood that were planted in 1795.'' The country estate that was Slot Zeist was built a century earlier, and if you leave the well-maintained castle through the main entrance you can walk or cycle for miles east along the main avenue which led to it, straight through the current center of the town with 64,000 inhabitants, over Slotlaan and Verlengde Slotlaan with those American oaks.

And if that greenery is not enough for an idyllic youth or a pleasant old age, you can suddenly walk from the neighborhood at the end of almost every street into the Zeisterbos, where you can wander for hours along the paths towards other forests and heathlands. Area.

View the original page: page 13

Graphic

 
Green, with the monumental houses hidden in between in the neighborhood where Wopke Hoekstra grew up.
Jogging on streets lined with beech trees that form the visual axes of Slot Zeist.

Load Date: March 9, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")