Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The ministry with the holes
NRC.NEXT
October 28, 2015 Wednesday


Copyright 2015 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: economics
Length: 771 words
Byline: Jos Verlaan
Body


infrastructure
In the week that the committee of inquiry publishes its report on the Fyra debacle, the Ministry of Infrastructure must answer for its 'ball-ball policy'.
The Hague. The ball-ball department. Or the ministry where one hole is filled with another. According to a number of MPs, the debate about the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, today and tomorrow, is mainly about opaque money shifting. Roads are built with money intended for maintenance of the rail network. Rail projects are financed with money that was reserved for safety.
"It is a big grab bag," says D66 spokesperson Stientje van Veldhoven. "There is an Infrastructure Fund and a Delta Fund. But if it turns out that way, the millions in those funds will be used for completely different purposes than for which they were intended. Sixteen million euros from the infrastructure fund will go to the implementation of the new Living Environment Act and another 39 million to IT projects."
This 'ball-ball policy' caused State Secretary Mansveld (PvdA) to get into trouble last month because she could not say how ProRail should finance track maintenance in the coming years. And because there is a threat of a deficit of 475 million euros for the period 2018-2028.
But this plays just as well in the portfolio of Minister Schultz (VVD), say Van Veldhoven and Liesbeth van Tongeren (GroenLinks). “Schultz is good at putting traffic projects forward. But at the expense of maintenance on the road network," says Van Tongeren.
Of the 8.2 billion euros that the department will spend next year, 6.4 billion will go to the Infrastructure Fund and the Delta Fund. The budget documents indeed show that next year a total of 20 million euros from both funds will go towards introducing the Environmental Act, which is separate from this.
"There are so many budget changes that it is hardly possible for a Member of Parliament to check what is actually happening," says CDA member Martijn van Helvert. According to him, Mansveld in particular has another problem: "On parts of In the ministry for which she is responsible, absenteeism is sky high, I understand. Is the department in good order?"
Van Tongeren wants to give Mansveld more breathing space by redistributing the portfolios. "Mansveld is involved with NS, ProRail, Air France-KLM and the environment. Schultz mainly cuts ribbons at the opening of new highways. She is investing heavily in her Delta Plan. But the safety of the dikes is still not in order. That won't be the case until 2065."
Schultz writes in the budget documents that the ministry will spend 1.5 billion euros annually on new roads until 2028. However, the length of traffic jams will continue to increase in the coming years. Schultz's intention was for the average travel time on the highways during rush hour to be a maximum of one and a half times that of outside rush hour. But the number of highways where this is practice is decreasing and the number of traffic jams is increasing. According to the minister, this is due to the improving economy and cheaper gasoline. But according to Van Tongeren, the number of traffic jams is increasing due to the increase in the number of cars and the use of the hard shoulder as a roadway. "In the event of an incident, it now takes much longer before the police or emergency services arrive on the scene. That encourages traffic jams."
It would be State Secretary Mansveld's week, a week in which she had to remain politically afloat on three topics: the continuation of the debate on the deplorable situation at ProRail, the presentation of the final report of the parliamentary inquiry committee Fyra and the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. But the debate on ProRail, planned for yesterday, has been postponed because Mansveld cannot provide all the answers to parliamentary questions for today. At the end of September, the House interrupted Mansveld's argument because there was no need for "a college from the State Secretary written down by civil servants". At the request of the House, Mansveld did send internal documents about ProRail, with the exception of one crucial document, a 'management letter' from the accountant.
The conclusions of the Fyra committee are first discussed in the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers. It will therefore take some time before Mansveld is sure of support in Parliament. "If she continues to deny or pass the buck in the coming weeks, she will have a problem," says Van Veldhoven (D66). "The debate is still ongoing," warns Van Helvert of the CDA. "But important questions have still not been answered."

Graphic

 
According to some MPs, roads are being built with money intended for maintenance of the rail network.

Load Date: October 27, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")