Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Anketien gives animals a voice with protest signs against McDonald's: 'It's getting blacker, growls the marten'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 25, 2024 Monday 11:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 650 words
Byline: Karin Mulder
Body


Artist Anketien van Zellingen has made twenty protest signs against the arrival of a McDonald's in Rheden. “I give the animals a voice, because how else can they protest against the disaster that awaits them?”
If the fast food chain is built, there will be no more darkness or silence on the Arnhemsestraatweg in Rheden, local residents say. “We will no longer see animals,” predicts Anketien van Zellingen. “Badgers, nightjars, martens, bats, deer: they emerge in the twilight.”
But the fear disappears when Chinese restaurant China Palace makes way for a hamburger chain that is open from early in the morning until one o'clock at night: "If that plan goes ahead, the situation will change forever. Then this won't be a nice place.”
Contradictory
That place is located at the foot of the Posbank, on the edge of the Natura 2000 area. "The Posbank is closing for cars to reduce nitrogen emissions," says Van Zellingen. "This is very contradictory: one is no longer allowed, the other is brought in."
To reduce nitrogen emissions on vulnerable nature, the municipality of Rheden previously put an end to the evenings of lights at the cemeteries in Rheden and Dieren. This year, Lamb Day will be held for the first time in the village of Rheden, and no longer at the sheepfold, also to relieve the pressure on the Veluwezoom National Park.
“And then a McDonald's with McDrive on the edge of this area? Who can explain that?" Tanya Zeeman from Velp wonders out loud. Because of the greenery and nature, Zeeman moved to the east of the country years ago. "But nature is receding. And what once has disappeared will not come again back."
Action group
Zeeman is a member of the action group 'No Rheden for the Mac!' "This is not a nimby issue (Not In My Backyard, KM), this is about preserving nature," Zeeman emphasizes. "It is not without reason that the petition against the arrival of this McDonald's has been signed almost 15,000 times."
Zeeman will be one of the speakers at the province next week. With the introduction of the new Environmental Act, the province has a key role in protecting nature reserves against construction plans.
“A plan must fit in with the environment,” says Dammy Evertse, neighbor of the proposed fast food chain on Arnhemsestraatweg. “When a significant increase in nitrogen is expected, this must be tested against European legislation and regulations.”
“It's getting blacker, growls the stone marten” is one of the slogans on Anketien van Zellingen's protest signs. She made twenty. “To give the animals a voice,” she says. "How else can they protest against the disaster that awaits them? The noise, the light pollution, the waste...”
Never go to McDonald's
The yellow M is missing from her protest signs, she does not wish to mention the name McDonald's. "I never visit this fast food chain. That says it all.”
The well-known yellow M is on the banner that the action group hung at the beginning of this month. It was immediately destroyed. "No McDonald's as a neighbor here, this place is for nature," it said. Vandals crossed out the word 'none' plus the second sentence with red paint. Below that they write: 'No burger is too expensive.'
“Two 14-year-old boys were caught red-handed,” says Evertse. According to the police, two minors were referred to Halt after the action. This will determine whether and what punishment the boys receive. The banner has now been cut to shreds by unknown persons.
Discussion
Anketien van Zellingen hopes that her protest signs will make passers-by think. “It's chowder,” says the fallow deer. “Don't be strange, stork clatters,” or: “I'm full of wrath, says squirrel.” “People will wonder: why? What's the meaning of this? Then hopefully a discussion will start.”
"Something like this does not belong on the edge of a nature reserve, but on an industrial estate," says Van Zellingen.

Load Date: March 25, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")