Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='It's getting blacker, growls the marten'
The Gelderlander
March 25, 2024 Monday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2, 3
Length: 605 words
Byline: KARIN MULDER
Highlight: Artist Anketien van Zellingen has made twenty protest signs against the arrival of a McDonald's in Rheden. She gives the animals in particular a voice.
Body


Anketien van Zellingen gives animals a voice 'with protest signs against McDonald's in Rheden
Karin Mulder

Rheden

If McDonald's comes to Rheden, there will be no more darkness or silence on the Arnhemsestraatweg, local residents say. "We will no longer see animals," predicts artist Anketien van Zellingen. "Badgers, nightjars, martens, bats, deer: they emerge at dusk."

But the fear disappears when Chinese restaurant China Palace makes way for a hamburger chain that is open from early in the morning until one o'clock at night: "If that plan goes ahead, the situation will change forever. Then this won't be a nice place."

That place is located at the foot of the Posbank, on the edge of the Natura 2000 area. "The Posbank is closing for cars to reduce nitrogen emissions," says Van Zellingen. "This is very contradictory."

To reduce nitrogen emissions on vulnerable nature, the municipality of Rheden previously put an end to the evenings of lights at the cemeteries in Rheden and Dieren. This year, Lamb Day will be held for the first time in the village of Rheden, and no longer at the sheepfold, also to relieve the pressure on the Veluwezoom National Park.

"And then a McDonald's with McDrive on the edge of this area? Who can explain that?'' Tanya Zeeman from Velp wonders out loud. Because of the greenery and nature, Zeeman moved to the east of the country years ago. “But nature is moving backwards. And what's gone won't come back."
Petition
Zeeman is a member of the action group 'No Rheden for the Mac!' "This is not a Nimby issue (not In my backyard, KM), this is about preserving nature. It is not without reason that the petition against the arrival of this McDonald's has been signed almost 15,000 times."

Zeeman will be one of the speakers at the province next week. With the introduction of the new Environmental Act, the province has a key role in protecting nature reserves against construction plans.

"A plan must fit in with the environment," says Dammy Evertse, neighbor of the proposed fast food chain on the Arnhemsestraatweg. "When a significant increase in nitrogen is expected, this must be tested against European legislation and regulations.”

'It's getting blacker, growls the stone marten' is one of the slogans on the protest signs of Anketien van Zellingen. She made twenty. "To give the animals a voice," she says. "How else can they protest against the disaster that awaits them? The noise, the light pollution, the waste..."

The yellow M is missing from her protest signs, she does not wish to mention the name McDonald's. "I never visit this fast food chain. That says it all.”

The well-known yellow M is on the banner that the action group hung at the beginning of this month. It was immediately destroyed. "No McDonald's as a neighbor here, this place is for nature," it said. Vandals crossed out the word 'none' plus the second sentence with red paint. Below that they write: 'No burger is too expensive.'

"Two 14-year-old boys were caught red-handed," Evertse said. According to the police, two minors were referred to Halt after the action. He will determine whether and what punishment the boys receive. The banner has now been cut to pieces by unknown persons.

Anketien van Zellingen hopes that her protest signs will make passers-by think. "It's chowder, says the fallow deer." 'Don't be strange, stork clatters', or: 'I am full of wrath, says squirrel'. “People will wonder: what does this mean? Then hopefully a discussion will start."

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Load Date: March 24, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")