Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=These are not times for partygoers
NRC.NEXT
October 27, 2017
nn Friday


Copyright 2017 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Domestic; Page 10
Length: 907 words
Byline: Arjen van Veelen

Kees Versteegh
Body


ABSTRACT
Image of the week
They would be too white. Too gray. Deputy Prime Minister Hugo de Jonge gives a striking signal during the presentation of Rutte III. Mountain boots would have been better.
"Glitzy shoes on the platform photo," Teletekst reported. These are shoes from the Rotterdam brand Mascolori, RTL soon knew. Soft blue floral print, from the Winter Garden collection. They cost 199 euros.
Nonsense news, many thought. But we shouldn't stop talking about Deputy Prime Minister De Jonge's partygoers. Those shoes are about the heart of the matter.
“We are going for the best people,” said Rutte. Seven months after the elections, he had found them all. His cabinet was called too white and too gray. This cabinet portrait seems intended as a purely cosmetic answer to that question. Many primary colors. women pop off the otherwise monochrome photo like bright blobs. Diversity! We are not gray!
They are camouflage colors that mask representative poverty, but enough has been said about that. These are Hugo de Jonge's shoes.
Because the biggest political question of our time is not 'are you left or right' and not even 'are you male or female' and of what color. The question is: are you a populist or not? Everything depends on that.
In America, our greatest friend and role model, there is a populist in power who is transforming the country into a commercial autocracy at a pace that makes experts dizzy.
The United Kingdom is dealing with the Brexit hangover, the ruins of populism.
Or think of Catalonia: who is going to tell those incited citizens there that as a separatist country they really cannot make a stand against the world? That they are not better off? Or who tells the Dutch that Europe is something beneficial?
Rutte was praised after the elections because he managed to turn back the populist wave, but for the time being, that's it. And the price he paid for it was high: he had become a bit populist himself.
His cabinet is a reflection of that half-heartedness, symbolized on the one hand by Halbe Zijlstra, who ridicules universal human rights but fought like a lion for Zwarte Piet. And on the other hand, Sigrid Kaag.
So a half-hearted government, which is not necessarily a bad thing: democracy is a wonderful system where after seven months you never receive exactly what you ordered online. But that compromise system is on the verge of breaking worldwide. And you have to choose.
Despite those Mondrian colors, this photo does not provide a clear answer to whether Rutte III will be a populist cabinet or not. The whiteness of the faces is actually a vague sign, but if you scan the photo for more signals, you will mainly see Hugo de Jonge's party shoes, with those floral patterns that Dutch men like to wear in the collars of shirts.
"We think it's cool that you speak out and show who you are." According to the brand's website.
Never before has a cabinet photo been the place for product placement, but this is not a matter of etiquette or taste. Shoes don't say everything, but these are not times for partygoers. Mountain boots would have been more appropriate. Rigid combat boots if necessary.
Because these times call for solid, intrinsically motivated, incorruptible, extremely principled politicians, who do not so much shine their faces on TV, but who want to serve the national interest: men and women who know that it is their important task to make the people resilient against geopolitical viruses and against much better organized big money, who know that they sometimes have to protect the people from themselves - the time calls for politicians who dare to be unpopular.
We still have to get to know Hugo de Jonge. He was a primary school teacher, perhaps a popular one. But to the big test question of our time, 'are we going to be popular, yes or no?', he already gives the wrong answer with his choice of shoes.
That signal worries me. Those shoes need to be taken off immediately.
Arjen van Veelen
Never before has a cabinet photo been the place for product placement
Home Affairs Kajsa Ollongren removes the Environmental Act from Infrastructure and the Environment
Kajsa Ollongren, the new Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister (D66), has made a flying start. When dividing tasks in the cabinet - the traditional land grab between ministers - she has secured important files. For example, the directorate that implements the Environmental Act is moving from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment to her department. The Housing Directorate, which had a separate project minister during Rutte II and was 'resident' at the Interior, now also falls directly under Ollongren.
The Environmental Act contains new rules for spatial planning, for example under what conditions homes may be built on former industrial estates. Because the involvement of local authorities in this is significant, the Ministry of the Interior will have more say.
It is still unclear the division of tasks in the digitization of all kinds of government tasks, the 'Digitalization of the State'. Home Affairs had an important role in this in the previous cabinet. However, it had to share it with other departments, such as Economic Affairs. There is a chance that this task will now be done by one person. Officials involved in this operation see this 'monopolization' as a risk, because - apart from the Home Office - no one will feel responsible for carrying out the complex task.
Kees Versteegh

Load Date: October 26, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")