Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Hipness
Limburgs Dagblad
November 25, 2016 Friday


Copyright 2016 Media Groep Limburg / Limburgs Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: D; Page 02
Length: 337 words
Byline: ANK AERTS
Body


COLUMN
Anyone who claims that there is nothing to laugh about in the labor market is wrong. Metro News reports on a new trend: funny titles are increasingly appearing for non-funny functions. Has everything to do with employer branding. It pretty much comes down to disguising the fact that hipness is hard to find in the office as artfully as possible.
Controllers are now called penny counters. Cleaners become maintenance stoppers and salespeople become sales cannons.
Or tigers, that's also possible. More and more companies believe that these playful titles radiate a fun atmosphere and therefore appeal particularly to young people. Well, I can tell you, the young people I regularly find in the bathroom here have to vomit a lot. Fortunately, I have something at hand to comfort them. They are not the only ones affected by this phenomenon. I also find this funny title challenge in places where there are not exactly teeming with young people. At a drinks party with mainly people over 40, I recently shook hands with a Head of Additional Affairs.
Because that made me laugh so much, I forgot what the woman actually did.
Another place with an unexpected amount of hipness is the website of Domestic Administration. There too, while scrolling through the vacancy page, something spontaneously caught my eye. The Program Manager for the introduction of the Environmental Act is called - hold on - an Acrobat. He is wanted by the municipality of Raalte, a collective municipality in the east of the country. Proud owner of at least nine churches and one and a half horse pasture. Governed by a municipal council that, together with the residents, is 'actively committed to maintaining the quality of life in the village'. So hip.
Do they really think that job seekers are attracted to flashy titles? How on earth are you going to pitch for a position like that?
Want to hang out in the rings in a leotard with freshly shaved armpits? Making a bird's nest for the application committee?
Dangling back and forth. Chirping up Jan Hanlo's The Sparrow?
Well, now I'm a little nauseous myself.

Load Date: November 25, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")