Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=How a politician sinks into a swamp of rules
The Gelderlander
December 10, 2022 Saturday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 7
Length: 661 words
Byline: ROB BERENDS
Highlight: In the section 'Current Situations', Rob Berends highlights the story behind the news. Episode 52: the end of a politician.
Body


Now even our politicians are sinking into the swamp of rules and procedures that is the Netherlands. This week, Jan van der Meer from Nijmegen announced his departure in a letter in which despair seeped between the lines.

Van der Meer is known as a cheerful boy, someone who always has a nice idea up his sleeve. Thirty years ago he entered the political scene, and since then no one has been able to stop him. He was an alderman in Nijmegen and Eindhoven, a heat director (yes!) in Amsterdam and currently he is a deputy in the province of Gelderland. An experienced politician, someone who knows his way around everywhere.
Dead end
And precisely such a person fears that the Netherlands has entered a dead end, a road with so many legal obstacles and obstacles that no one can make any progress. Van der Meer is a GroenLinks member, climate change is his subject. But what he describes can just as easily apply to youth care, education or the construction of a road.

Van der Meer writes: 'We have built a legal system in which everything must be calculated and investigated down to ten decimal places. A legal reality in which, for example, we talk about an acceptable mortality of 0.36 honey buzzards per year in and around the Veluwe. In which Regional Energy Strategies must be secured in environmental law instruments, resulting in many Environmental Impact Reports and Notes of Scope and Level of Detail.'

We have talked about that honey buzzard before in this place. The animal has no idea how important he is in this country. The elaboration of our Natura 2000 rules states that there must be one hundred pairs on the Veluwe if this bird species wants to have any future. This is called sustainable maintenance, in legalese.

According to calculations there are 94 pairs. Six too few, and as a result there is hardly anything left in and around the Veluwe. You could call it the boomerang effect of history that the protection of an animal is now hitting a GroenLinks member (one who would rather build windmills than protect animals) in the face.
Mathematics is not law
The Council of State, our highest court, recently overturned a decision by the Renkum municipal council. That council did not want a house to be built in the Renkums Beekdal. Wrong, the Council of State found. Can the house be built with this? That's just the question. If the Renkum municipal council manages to better substantiate why that house should not be built, it may still be right.

It's the difference between math and law. In mathematics, the answer to a problem does not change if you perform the calculation differently. This is different in law: you can always win a case if you can find better substantiation. And because there are always lawyers in the Netherlands who think they can do that, a case has a difficult time coming to an end.

The subject is not new: I remember that in the 1990s, Doetinchem mayor Jan Fokkens warned about the 'juridization' of housing construction. The new Dichteren district did not get off the ground, a few objectors kept starting new procedures, and it took years before the first foundation could be laid.

It made the mayor desperate, but I think that with what he knows now he would be happy that it happened so quickly. After eight years, work on the district could begin. An eternity then, not so bad now.

The legal quagmire has only grown bigger and more treacherous since then. Now even a chastened politician like Van der Meer leaves in despair, without seeing a solution. So the question is: who is able to fill in this swamp?

Comment? Email to r.berends@gelderlander.nl
The boomerang effect of history: that the protection of an animal hits a GroenLinks member squarely in the face

View the original page: page 7

Load Date: December 9, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")