Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Apartments or industrial buildings shut down our mills: 'We were not alert'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 19, 2023 Tuesday 08:40 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 891 words
Byline: Lucas van Houtert
Body


GELDROP/ASTEN - The millers of 't Nupke in Geldrop turned down in court last week, while those of De Oostenwind in Asten are still awaiting a ruling. Millers have to fight harder and harder for their right to wind. The national mill association is now calling on municipalities to 'protect mills once and for all' in the new Environmental Act.
Oh, the Netherlands certainly loves its windmills, says board member Pierre Bos of the Molenstichting Noord-Brabant. "But the big problem is that everyone only sees those water or wind turbines as a physical building. No one realizes that this also includes water or wind. And if you don't recognize that, you are amputating the mill.”
Exactly that is commonplace. Because in our increasingly crowded country, new construction is moving further and further towards mills. Especially windmills. These are traditionally located on an open plain, so that they can catch the wind from all sides. Municipalities often pay little attention to this, Bos sees. And if the civil servant does think about it, the hired consultancy firm often goes wrong.
Mill in the shelter
A look at the court rulings shows that in the past five years, litigation has taken place in at least nine cases regarding the windage of windmills. With varying degrees of success. Last week, the green light was given for the construction of a 15-meter-high apartment building in Geldrop. The judge found that the millers of 't Nupke were not interested and dismissed their objections.
Their colleague Geert van Stekelenburg stood before the Council of State last week. He is fighting against a 12-meter-high industrial hall that, he fears, will put the De Oostenwind mill in Asten in the lee of some wind directions. Altena, Ommen, Aalsmeer, Weert, Zaanstad, the same thing happens in all parts of the country. In Alphen, the Rijnlandse Molenstichting demanded 100,000 euros in compensation from the municipality this spring for the loss of wind from the Vrouwgeest mill.
When a mill no longer turns and vibrates, the longhorn beetle feels at home there
Interesting detail: the municipality that is being taken to court is often the owner of the mill. So that millers actually take their own landlord to court to save his building from decay. Because that is what millers say happens when a mill stops turning.
Boktor feels at home
A mill cannot function without wind or water, explains secretary Ernst Thoolen of the Molenstichting Noord-Brabant (130 affiliated mills). "If it turns little, the blades are in the same position for too long and they start to hang. Water drips in the same spot all the time. And when a mill no longer turns and vibrates, the longhorn beetle feels at home there.”
It is also important that the wind is constant. If a building causes it to become gusty, this is disastrous for the product, flour. “The faster the mill turns, the further apart the millstones are and the less fine the flour becomes,” Thoolen teaches. “You can adjust that manually, but not if there are flurries all the time.”
The funny thing is: for centuries the wind rights of windmills were excellently regulated. Building near a mill was simply prohibited. That made sense, because without mills there would be no flour and therefore no daily bread. When the mill disappeared from the food chain, it gradually became a popular piece of heritage and UNESCO even placed the miller's craft on the list of intangible heritage.
We have not been alert enough in the past
"We have not been alert enough in the past," mill director Bos takes stock. Because it is still possible to protect mills against disruptive buildings, trees that are too tall or, in the case of water mills, a disrupted water flow. This must be included in the municipal zoning plans, and that is sometimes, but often not, properly arranged.
"If you have not arranged it in the zoning plan, then you have to do so in a legal process. And then something like in Geldrop can happen.” There, the case ultimately did not revolve around the question of whether the mill still got enough wind, but whether the millers had the right to object.
Read more below the photo: 'Very bitter for volunteer millers'.
If a miller gets his case before the court, it almost always revolves around the 'mill biotope'. That is the area around the mill, with a radius of 400 meters. No or only very low construction is permitted in the first 100 meters. The permitted building height increases towards the outside. The biotope may differ per mill. Free wind on the west side counts the most, because that is where the wind usually comes from.
“Very bitter,” Bos thinks it is when volunteer millers have to invest their time in procedures. Also because their battle is often not equal: they have to deal with professional lawyers from municipalities or project developers.
The moment to arrange
In an attempt to protect mills once and for all, the national interest group De Hollandsche Molen sent a letter to all Dutch municipalities last month. As of January 1, zoning plans will be replaced by an environmental plan that applies to the entire municipality. De Hollandsche Molen asks them to include a passage about the mill biotope as standard.
Bos wholeheartedly supports this and also calls on Brabant millers to be careful: "This is the time to arrange it."

Load Date: December 19, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")