Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=How good or bad is the Zidewinde swimming pool actually?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 2, 2024 Friday 12:01 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 749 words
Byline: Michel Koster
Body


WAALWIJK - Waalwijk is prepared to invest heavily in the Zidewinde swimming pool in Sprang-Capelle. The installations are outdated, but is there anything wrong with the complex anymore? The call for a broader investigation is heard. Is there reason for concern or not?
The municipality is faced with stricter requirements for swimming pools. The outdated installations at Zidewinde do not meet this requirement. In order to keep the open-air pool open in the future, something must be done about it.
There will be a preliminary investigation into the installations at Zidewinde, and the necessary investments to modernize or replace them. A majority of the municipal council also wants the structural condition of the pool to be examined immediately. She is prepared to open her wallet for such a broader investigation. This concerns an amount of up to 120,000 euros.
But is such an investigation into the structural condition already necessary? The largest coalition party Local Interest thinks so. According to her, there are signs of concrete rot in the pool boxes, dated and uncomfortable gravel tiles and outdated toilets.
'It will be neatly repaired'
Councilor Sheila Schuijffel paints a much more positive picture. The pool is carefully monitored so that people can swim there safely. She has inquired about possible concrete rot, but nothing indicates this at all. And if the municipal council wants to modernize the bath with new sanitary facilities and tiles, it must indicate this. That does come with a hefty price tag.
According to her, it is very common for open-air baths that tiles sometimes come loose during the winter period. And that is also the case with Zidewinde. "That has to do with the weather conditions. It will all be neatly repaired.”
In any case, tackling the outdated installations cannot be postponed for much longer. If nothing is done, they are in danger of being rejected. The new environmental law places stricter requirements on bathing water. For example, extra attention is paid to hygiene, safety and structural supervision.
In extreme cases, the environmental department can even oblige the municipality to close the 45-year-old pool if everything is not in order. But we are not there yet.
What will it cost?
A majority of the municipal council does not believe it is wise to invest heavily in technical installations if you do not know whether there are still structural defects. She does not want to wait for next year's already planned inspection, but wants to bring this research forward. Possible necessary investments can then be made in one go. "Zidewinde can continue for years to come," said Niels van der Pluijm (Local Interest).
Councilor Sheila Schuijffel does not think such an additional investigation is necessary now, because in her opinion the current state of the pool does not require it. According to her, the investment in the installations is also separate from a possible major renovation of Zidewinde. “It is certainly not a divestment.”
The big question, of course, is what the renovation will ultimately cost. More than €400,000 has previously been set aside to tackle the outdated installations. “That amount will of course be a lot higher,” said councilor Ad van Hamond (Local Interest). He points out all the price increases. “It will soon amount to seven to eight tons.” But the councilor is much more optimistic and thinks he can go far with the more than four hundred thousand euros.
Work starts after the summer
A majority of the council (Lokaal Belang, GroenLinksaf, SGP and CDA) still stood their ground on Thursday evening. They have instructed the council to broaden the research. And yes, it may cost 40,000 euros more than the 80,000 euros that the council actually asked for. Not all parties in the council share that opinion. Everyone seems to agree on the need to tackle the installations.
That work starts after the summer, as soon as the pool is closed. The swimmers will then not be bothered by it. The municipality hopes for a good swimming season this year. A lot depends on the weather. Last year, with all those showers, the counter was stuck at almost 24,000 visitors, compared to around 32,000 in 2022. Additional income is welcome. Such a bath guzzles money. The municipality invested 90,000 euros in Zidewinde last year (excluding personnel costs).
In any case, Waalwijk is opting for a much more sustainable Zidewinde. For example, the pool will benefit from solar panels on the nearby sports hall. A water pump is also needed. Furthermore, the municipality wants to maintain bathing water quality with far fewer chemicals.

Load Date: April 18, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")