Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=How major issues must wait for elections and cabinet formation; Fallow files
NRC
July 10, 2023 Monday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: COVER PAGE; Page 1
Length: 1971 words
Byline: Eppo König, Rik Rutten

Erik van der Walle
Body


ABSTRACT
Important files
The outgoing cabinet had big plans for agriculture, public housing, the climate and asylum. What will become of this now?
COMPLETE TEXT:
If the outgoing Rutte IV cabinet remains in office until the new elections, what policy can it still make and what cannot? That is one of the topics that will probably be discussed on Monday during a parliamentary debate, in the first week of the summer recess. The consequences of the cabinet fall for four important topics:
Agriculture and nitrogen
Certainty after years of erratic agricultural policy, that is what the government wanted to give the farmers. Angry farmers will be happy with the fall of the cabinet, but the uncertainty about the future of the agricultural sector will last longer.
More than a year ago, the government issued the infamous nitrogen card and the maligned 'perspective letter' on making agriculture more sustainable until 2040. With the cabinet fall, it could easily take a year and a half before the next cabinet has a new agricultural policy.
That means standstill - or continuation of the status quo. In the meantime, the clock is ticking for, for example, the tightening of manure standards in 2026, or the improvement of water quality by 2027. It puts pressure on a new cabinet to come up with solutions, while nature and the environment are the silent losers. There is also a delay to improve animal welfare in livestock farming.
It seems unlikely that outgoing Minister Piet Adema (Agriculture, Christian Union) will still issue his own 'agriculture letter' in September after the collapse of the Agriculture Agreement. A new cabinet will want to consider the path to sustainable agriculture, with a revenue model for farmers. And this again in negotiations or coordination with the agricultural sector, food industry, nature organizations and provinces.
The new cabinet, like Rutte IV, will be stuck between two parties: protesting farmers who are against sensitive interventions, such as a significant reduction in the livestock herd, and the European Commission's critical view of whether the Netherlands is seriously working on nature restoration.
One difficult political point is off the table for now: the CDA does not have to renegotiate with the coalition about the pace at which nitrogen emissions will be halved. The target year of 2030 (instead of 2035) will expire, as will probably the nitrogen law that was supposed to establish this ambition.
What could in principle continue are the voluntary buyout schemes for 'peak loaders' and other farmers. There has been approval from Brussels, money has been set aside (1,475 million euros) and the arrangements have just been opened. All nitrogen emissions that are now being reduced would help a new cabinet.
However, the announced coercive measures for peak loaders who do not want to be bought out may also expire. The cabinet was happy if a fifth of the three thousand peak loaders would participate, but who knows, the enthusiasm for the scheme may now appear to be even less.
A major uncertainty in all of this is the money that must be legally reserved for making agriculture more sustainable: the 'Rural Areas and Nature Transition Fund' of 24.3 billion euros. A small majority of the House of Representatives approved it in May, but the question was already whether the bill would pass the Senate. No agricultural reform without money.
Asylum and migration
It is an ironic outcome of the fall of Rutte IV: further restrictions on asylum, the Casus Belli on which the cabinet fell, will not be possible in the next six months.
Given the previous struggles over asylum, it is striking how close the coalition parties came to each other in the past week. VVD, D66, CDA and ChristenUnie could all agree to the (re)introduction of a 'two-status system', with a distinction between people who flee, for example, because of their orientation or religion, and people who flee a war.
There was also agreement in other areas. Asylum seekers from safe countries, with little chance of obtaining a residence permit, would no longer be assured of legal assistance in the event of an appeal or appeal, as is currently the case. There would be a detention center for asylum seekers who have already applied for asylum in another European country and need to return to that country.
Due to the VVD's strict demand to ban family reunification if the limits of Dutch reception capacity have been reached, all these plans are now shelved. The next cabinet will have to renegotiate who is welcome in the Netherlands as an asylum seeker, or as a knowledge or labor migrant, whether or not by setting maximum numbers.
It can seek help in this regard from the State Commission on Demographic Developments 2050, which will provide advice to parliament and government early next year on drawing up new, long-term demographic policy - also with regard to migration.
A new cabinet also faces another major dilemma: how asylum seekers are distributed across the Netherlands. Rutte IV devised the dispersal law for this purpose, a law that could force municipalities to arrange shelter places if necessary. But that law has still not been adopted: the VVD in particular remained critical behind the scenes. The distribution law also received a lot of criticism from municipalities. The Council of State called the bill "unnecessarily complex".
An emotional State Secretary Eric van der Burg (Asylum and Migration, VVD) still called the dispersal law "very necessary" after the cabinet fall. The Spring Memorandum has already made a lot of extra money available for asylum reception, but it seems unlikely that the Second The House still continues with this unpopular law.
This means that Van der Burg will have to negotiate for additional reception places if the number of asylum seekers increases. He wanted to promise one thing, immediately after the cabinet fell: there will be no scenes in the registration center in Ter Apel, like last year. "I have promised and I will continue to promise and I will also ensure that no people sleep in the grass in Ter Apel."
The international situation could well help Van der Burg: the number of asylum seekers so far this year is many times lower than expected for this year - in April the forecast was still 70,000 asylum seekers - even lower than last year.
Spatial planning and public housing
Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning, CDA) will also continue to work with "a lot of energy", he tweeted on Saturday. "Public housing and spatial planning have made a comeback. That has been successful," De Jonge wrote. .
The question remains what will become of his ambitious agenda, and if so at what pace. The spatial issues surrounding the housing shortage, climate change and energy transition have not suddenly disappeared. But a subsequent cabinet, for example with the BBB, may think very differently about central control by the government.
How things will proceed with De Jonge's new Spatial Policy Memorandum, for example, is uncertain. In September, the cabinet actually wanted to outline the first plan for the 'major renovation of the Netherlands' until 2030, 2050 and 2100. That memorandum concerns, among other things, the regions, agriculture and energy transition - major issues that the cabinet hoped to provide guidance on.
The plans to build 936,000 homes by 2030 will not simply be scrapped. The provinces have signed 35 regional 'housing deals' with the government. There remains a high demand for new homes and there is broad political support for this. With previous bumps - rising interest and material costs, nitrogen - the question now arises as to what the government can contribute.
It is mainly De Jonge's innovative laws that seem to die before they reach the House of Representatives and Senate. For example, the Public Housing Reinforcement (Regulation) Act, which should give the government more control over how much, where and for whom construction takes place. This is a far-reaching change to the new Environmental Act, which will come into effect on January 1.
For example, the new law must ensure that new homes in all municipalities are two-thirds affordable. The procedures for legal disputes about construction sites are shortened. The minister can also make binding decisions in conflicts between housing associations and municipalities, and in protracted disputes about construction locations.
A sensitive law by De Jonge that does not appear to be passing either is the Affordable Rent Act. Landlords who charge too high a price for 'mid-range rent' (up to approximately 1,120 euros per month) could be fined up to 90,000 euros. The bill received a lot of criticism from the market: landlords, real estate investors and banks feared that their revenue model would be affected.
Another plan by De Jonge to allocate owner-occupied homes up to 355,000 euros to low incomes and middle incomes recently failed. The House of Representatives did support that municipalities may partially award housing to their own residents and people with crucial professions, for example - but it is uncertain whether that law will also pass the Senate.
The climate problem
Last Monday, Minister Rob Jetten (Climate and Energy, D66) presented two reports on the energy system of 2050 and informed the House of Representatives about the latest developments surrounding the construction of the hydrogen network. On Tuesday, after a late-night debate, he achieved a large majority in favor of the arrival of the climate fund, which represents 35 billion in investments. Later that week, Jetten made additions about solar energy and heating networks.
Of course, a minister is above average productive in the last days before a summer recess, but the past week is still a good illustration of the pace of Jetten's plans. As if Friday's cabinet crisis had been on its heels for some time.
For the first time, the Rutte IV cabinet provided ambitious energy and climate policy, without it having to be "feasible and affordable". It was also the first time that all coalition parties fully supported the minister, without one or two parties being forced to 'ribbled along'.
Of course, there is a lot of criticism of Jetten's policy on the left (too many subsidies to industry) and on the right (wasted money). When he introduced additional climate policy last spring, motorists, meat eaters and air travelers were ostentatiously spared. Despite this political compromise, no one doubts the government's intentions to achieve the 2030 climate goals: at least 55 percent less CO2 emissions compared to 1990, as is now also the European Union's aim to limit climate change to some extent.
The big question is to what extent these goals are still achievable. Serious reinforcement of the power grid and, for example, the realization of hydrogen factories require years of preparation, partly due to long permit processes.
As early as November 2020, then Climate Agreement chairman Ed Nijpels warned of irreparable delays if the Rutte III cabinet did not tighten climate policy. The goals of the Climate Agreement, which remained out of reach with the policy of the previous cabinet, "cannot tolerate political shelter," Nijpels wrote to the then responsible minister Wiebes. It was only in January 2022, fourteen months after Nijpels' letter, that the ambitions became serious. tightened with the arrival of Rutte IV.
Whether '2030' is still unachievable depends largely on whether climate policy, despite its caretaker status, maintains momentum with the support of the House of Representatives. If a political lull arises again, the goals will quickly become unattainable: after elections in November and after a similar formation as for Rutte IV, only 76 months remain before 2031.
What does the fall of Rutte IV mean for policy?
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Above: farmers' protest against the nitrogen plans in Stroe, Gelderland, June 2022. Middle: asylum seekers arrive at the registration center in Ter Apel. Below: the Delftse Grasbuurt under construction.
Photos Olivier Middendorp, Vincent Jannink/ANP, Walter Herfst

Load Date: July 9, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")