Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=What is the situation with the Bergen quay walls? 'Very variable'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 7, 2024 Thursday 07:03 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 571 words
Byline: Ben van den Aarssen
Body


BERGEN OP ZOOM - Eighteen horizontal drillings have been carried out. Plus another two vertically, meters deep into the ground. Together they must make it clear how good or how bad the quay walls at the Oude Binnenhaven really are. Drilling master Joost Ridderhof cannot give a clear answer. “The quality is very variable.”
Ridderhof is co-owner of the specialized company JGK Betonboringen and inspects both the walls of the North and South Harbor sides. It is daily work for Tilburg residents. He has also drilled in the old city centers of Amsterdam, Utrecht and recently Den Bosch. Vertical drilling also remains a challenge for him. "Just now I was 3.60 meters deep."
Sometimes he also encounters surprises. Just yet. "There were pieces of concrete under the masonry." Ridderhof shows his find to councilor Hans Peter Verroen, who is on a working visit. Much of the material has already been removed from other places along the port. “Some stones were almost grit, others much better.”
To give Ridderhof space, a small portion of the sandbags have been temporarily removed from the water. Councilor Verroen is curious about the results. Local residents will hear about this on Monday at a so-called environmental table, a meeting at which those directly involved can have their say and think about the plans.
Old and new walls
This will be the third meeting to discuss the restoration of the historic quay walls. A fourth environmental table is already on the agenda for next month, says project leader Tamara de Vries. “Outside, if the weather permits.” She points to the intended location, a little further away, more towards the Ham. "There you can see both old and new walls close to each other."
The municipality is working on various scenarios with associated financial consequences. One of the residents' proposals has already been taken off the table: a lowered path along the water. Such a path requires too much space and is expensive. In addition, parking spaces are needed and part of the neighborhood also wants greenery along the water.
So the walking path will not be there, says Verroen. "But in order to know what is possible, or what is not, we first want to know how stable the quay walls really are."
Interrupted links
It is clear that a lot has been stuck to the walls in the past. This was also the case at the location of the vertical drilling. Project leader De Vries points out the details that already reveal a lot. "The natural stone band is interrupted here by masonry stone from a later date."
According to De Vries, in other parts a small wall has been built in front of the old wall, with the necessary space in between. In short, patchwork. "We want to solve it properly once and for all, with respect for the historical image. At the same time, the port must also radiate vibrancy."
Difficult task
The municipality wants to speed up the project. According to Verroen, repairing with historically responsible stones will be a difficult task. "These types of bricks have to be specially fired and we don't have that much time, not to mention the costs."
The aim is to present the various scenarios to the council at the last council meeting before the summer holidays, including a cost overview. Verroen is happy with the dialogue in the environmental tables, as is in line with the Environmental Act that came into effect at the beginning of this year. “We really do it together with the residents.”

Load Date: March 7, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")