Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=What will Weurt look like?
The Gelderlander
December 9, 2014 Tuesday
Wijchen Beuningen


Copyright 2014 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: 3_WB
Length: 613 words
Body


A flexible zoning plan for the village center of Weurt: the neighborhood will soon be in charge.
 WEURT - Beuningen politicians are considering an exciting experiment tonight: rules are being abolished in a street in Weurt and replaced by a 'flexible zoning plan'.
 Laan 1945 must develop into the 'beating village heart' of Weurt. To make this possible, the municipality will not figure out how, but Weurten residents can take a seat at the drawing board themselves.
 Exciting, says Elma van Heerde, municipal official. "It is a completely new way of working for us. I hope that in ten years garages will have been converted into shops. But the most important thing is that something is happening and that residents support it."
 Van Heerde explains the working method with legal advisor Dènes Jansen from Waalbrug bureau. He hopes that the Weurt way of arranging will become the standard in the Netherlands in a few years. “And that is part of it,” he says. "The Environmental Act is already being amended. They are not even waiting for the results of this test. Actually drunk, but apparently there is a lot of confidence that the right path has been taken."
 Two groups of Weurten residents meet regularly to discuss the future of the village. The first group is called 'streetscape' and considers, among other things, plants and parking facilities. Now the cars are still a bit chaotic on the road. The point is that Beuningen has no money to do anything, but the residents have to come up with a good plan so that they can raise funds for new plans.
 The other initiative group is called 'activities'. Under the leadership of Pieter Wouters from the Coop supermarket, it is being examined whether it is possible to entice a catering establishment run by disabled people to locate at Laan 1945.
 "It's about residents and entrepreneurs coming up with initiatives themselves," says Elma van Heerde. "That is the big difference: the government is withdrawing and therefore no longer determines exactly what may arise where. Let citizens decide that for themselves."
 The most important provision in the 'flexible zoning plan' is that functions are permitted provided they do not pose any danger, nuisance or damage to the environment. Jansen: "You don't really need more, do you? In the Netherlands there are already so many rules that a zoning plan is unnecessary. It is also becoming increasingly complicated, as companies can no longer be neatly pigeonholed. A bicycle repairer who also has a coffee corner, is that retail, a service or catering industry? That doesn't matter if you only look at danger, nuisance and damage instead of focusing on boarded-up zoning plans. In my own neighborhood, ice cream is sold from a garage summer months. Great. Now that is not possible in Weurt because the 'residential' designation does not allow any activity."
 "It now takes a lot of time to allow such an ice cream shop," says Van Heerde. "Because then the zoning plan must be changed, the mayor and aldermen will consider it, then the change will be available for inspection for six weeks, the objections will be assessed and the municipal council will still have to decide on it. Before you know it, it will be six months further. This must be done faster. And that can be done through the proposed changes."
 Is there also another side of the coin? Jansen: "There is always a tension between legal certainty and flexibility. Since the crises, there has been a greater need for flexibility." Van Heerde: "We want to form an advisory committee with residents and entrepreneurs from the neighborhood. If an initiative comes up, they can indicate whether they support it. The neighborhood will soon have a say."

Load Date: December 8, 2014, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")