Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=High levies hinder events at Maas
The Gelderlander
April 16, 2024 Tuesday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 844 words
Byline: PETER VAN ERP
Highlight: The floodplains along the Meuse are becoming unaffordable for local activities. Lith Presenteert is cancelled, Thanks to Dijken has doubts about the future and Pleinpop is left with a financial hangover. What is going on?
Body


Floodplains are becoming unaffordable for local activities organizations
The fun is completely gone for organizations of events on the banks of the Maas. The necessary paperwork has become overwhelming for volunteers in recent years and now the government is also making a significant contribution to the budget. The fees for a permit will go from approximately 100 euros to more than 1100 euros in one fell swoop.

And then 2 euros per visitor must also be paid. That is the rent charged by the Central Government Real Estate Agency.
'Happy when we break even'
At the Pleinpop festival, which took place in Alphen aan de Maas on the weekend of April 6 and 7, this year the latter organization alone presented them with a bill of 15,000 euros. "In previous years we were able to help local associations with the money we saved. But now we're lucky if we break even. There is a good chance that money will be needed," grumbles Willie Appeldoorn, chairman of the organization.

Pleinpop started out as a fun village party, but this extra cost could well be the final blow to the event.
Paperwork
Appeldoorn: "We have been busy with all the paperwork for six months anyway. Nitrogen calculations, nature surveys, permits; something new is added every year. It's driving you crazy. Then we would still have a modest yield that we could make our associations happy with. But that is also taken away. We basically work to pay for all the agencies. If this does not change, many organizations will give up. With these rates we might as well buy our own piece of land."

One of the events that is already being canceled is Lith Presenteert, a small-scale fair that would take place on June 2 at the museum boat De Schokker. "Because this falls within the breeding season, we should hire an ecologist for research," says Tonnie Wiegmans of the Promotion Village on the River foundation.

While the board was considering an alternative date outside the breeding season, the members received news of the extreme increase in fees and rent of 2 euros per visitor. ,,Then it stops. We aimed for a small-scale fair with free entrance. The main aim was to introduce people from Lith to the museum boat and our activities. But this way it becomes unaffordable. We'll come up with something else."
Huge downer
Ans Jager is also very disappointed. The director of theater group Thanks to the Dijken recently received dire news from Rijkswaterstaat about the new rates. In September, the performance Long Live the War is planned for two weekends in a row at the Princess Maxima locks in Lith. A performance on the occasion of 80 years of liberation. The news that the organization will soon have to pay thousands of euros to be allowed to perform in the familiar location on the Maas is a huge downer.

“We always leave that place cleaner and better than how we found it. Litter is cleaned up and we don't damage anything," says Jager. "It is an ideal location for us, because no one is bothered by us there. Of course, we always look for a connection with the river, but whether that can still be achieved in this way..."

The new costs would be related to the new Environmental Act that came into effect on January 1, Appeldoorn understands. “From now on, all applications will go through the Environment Desk, which will involve the competent authorities. Then the whole train starts rolling, with this as a result. I thought the government was there to encourage these types of events, but the opposite is the case. The fun of organizing is completely gone."

A spokeswoman for Rijkswaterstaat confirms this statement in broad terms. "The new Environmental Act states that the costs for issuing permits can be passed on to the applicant. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management has set this at just over 600 euros. In addition, we must publish decisions about this in the Government Gazette and make the documents physically available for inspection. We will also charge these costs, 520 euros, to the applicant. Previously, these were largely paid from general funds. But that has now changed."
Not to keep parties out
Rijkswaterstaat refers to the National Real Estate Agency, the service that manages all buildings and land of the government, regarding the costs that are also charged per visitor to an event. According to a spokeswoman for this service, a market rate is applied when renting land.

“We are obliged to comply with laws and regulations during implementation. The Central Government Real Estate Agency does not charge higher fees to ban parties from certain locations."

The fact that the accumulation of costs has the effect of making the floodplains an almost inaccessible area for small-scale events is therefore not policy.
If this does not change, many organizations will give up

View the original page: page 1

Graphic

 
An aerial photo of Pleinpop in 2022, at the new location on the Maas. The organization is issuing a cry for help.

Load Date: April 15, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")