Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Hope for residents of the busy N321
The Gelderlander
December 30, 2023 Saturday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 415 words
Byline: DENNIS GREIJN
Highlight: Residents living near the N321 in Beers will be able to more easily qualify for measures in their homes to combat noise pollution from traffic in the new year.
Body


Noise pollution tackled
Dennis Greijn

Beers

The province of Brabant will map out which homes in the vicinity of the N321 are eligible for noise abatement. The province does this because the new Environmental Act applies from 1 January and the province is then the so-called competent authority when it comes to noise abatement, among other things.

With a view to noise pollution, this may offer new opportunities for local residents. They may then be eligible for, for example, additional insulation in the home, paid for by the province. People in Beers who qualify for this will receive a letter from the province.
Refurbishment
Later this year, Brabant will redesign the 3 kilometer section of the N321 near Gassel and make it safer. This will include two roundabouts to reduce traffic speed, a new wider cycle path and a safer exit at the petrol station towards the village.

The part of the provincial road between the Ten Holtweg, a side road of the N321 near Gassel, and the entrances and exits of the A73 (Beers is located in between) is not yet due for reconstruction, according to the province. This is because the water board first has to strengthen the Maasdijk, not far from the road.

We are also still waiting for further developments around the Dommelsvoort holiday park near Beers, for which the N321 also needs to be overhauled. A new intersection with traffic lights should be built halfway between the McDonald's in Cuijk and the intersection at the Beers church. In addition, according to the province, there is not enough money to tackle the entire road at once.

Residents living near the N321 in Beers have been complaining about noise pollution for some time. The province repaired the cross seams in the asphalt in the autumn of 2022. This caused less inconvenience for a few months. Then new cracks appeared in the asphalt.

According to the province, lowering the maximum speed from 80 to 70 or 60 kilometers per hour is not desirable. Because this can lead to cut-through traffic in the countryside. The N321 is a so-called distributor road. Traffic must be able to move 'smoothly' to and from the A73 here. 80 kilometers per hour is the national guideline.

Research has shown, according to Brabant, that a lower speed 'has no audible effect on the noise load'. Installing speed cameras, as is sometimes suggested, is also not possible. Because reducing noise is not a criterion for installing a speed camera.

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: December 29, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")