Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Horn Tours resisted municipal control: 'Intimidating'
The Limburger
December 1, 2023 Friday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: CONFLICT; Page 4
Length: 765 words
Body


Disagreement between Horn Tours in Horn, owned by Martijn Walraven, and the municipality of Leudal has escalated this week. Walraven resisted the visit of a municipal inspector yesterday afternoon, but ultimately had to tolerate him on his property.
Walraven first wanted to appoint two ex-military personnel to transfer the inspector, who was not welcome, to the police, if necessary using physical force. It didn't get that far. The inspector would turn back at Walravens' request, the municipality had told him yesterday morning, in order not to escalate the matter.
When the supervisor arrived with the police yesterday afternoon, the entrepreneur approached him to deny him access himself. The police then wanted to arrest Walraven to enforce control. Walraven then decided to let the inspector in in consultation with his lawyer, to avoid his own arraignment before the public prosecutor.
The entrepreneur still wants to file a police report against Mayor Désirée Schmalschläger. He accuses her of improper management and abuse of power. This concerns agreements about what is permitted on his property on Napoleonsweg.
Horn Tours stores coaches and trucks there and has construction plans. The disagreement concerns the permits for this. Walraven is in conflict with Leudal about what he considers to be a slow state of affairs; After a promised inspection by supervisors, the case exploded.
Solutions
Walraven says that he had a good conversation with Schmalschläger in mid-November. He thought, he says, that both sides wanted to strive for solutions instead of attacking each other in a harsh manner.
It hit him the wrong way that Leudal, one day after that conversation, announced an inspection of the environmental law. "That comes across as an act of revenge or settlement," he wrote in an email to the mayor the day before yesterday.
In a response, the municipality only reports that yesterday there was a standard check on compliance with rules at Walraven. That would have nothing to do with the conversation. The municipality also states that verbal agreements about what is and is not allowed on its property are only legally valid if they are on paper. According to Leudal, that is not the case.
Leudal then states that 'in the interest of transparency, the issue will not be discussed publicly'. The municipality says it only communicates about this with those involved themselves.
The entrepreneur has been complaining for some time about Leudal's lack of openness, arbitrariness and legal inequality when it comes to granting orders. Walraven is also a 'regular customer' of the independent ombudsman of Leudal, Wiel Stevens, where he fights against 'official corruption and untouchability', as he calls it.
The disagreement about agreements regarding his company on the Napoleonsweg is said to be related to a location on the Markt in Grathem, which he previously did not purchase for his company at the request of Leudal. He also states that Leudal is guilty of 'bullying' his company on the Rijksweg in Horn.
Taunting
Walraven wants to redevelop the former roadside restaurant on the Napoleonsweg - now also an office for his company. According to him, the contact with the municipality about this is anything but smooth. In a letter to Schmalschläger he talks about 'fictitious stories, bullying, not responding to emails and other unreasonable things. This is precisely the wrong administrative culture of the municipality that must be put to an end!'
The entrepreneur calls Leudal's actions 'escalating, intimidating and threatening' and he talks about 'framing' and abuse of powers. Because of the latter, he wants to report Schmalschläger and an official to the police.
Walraven initially planned to arrest the supervisor himself through 'citizen's arrest'. This means that anyone who catches someone committing a crime can arrest them themselves and hand them over to the police, without unnecessary violence.
Walraven had already informed the police of his intention. The two ex-soldiers had to do the job in his place. 'This is to prevent unnecessary injuries and because I am against violence. But you force me to protect myself, my company and my people in this way.” He wrote to Schmalschläger on Wednesday: 'I would hate to have to arrest you as mayor of Leudal at the town hall or at your home. Because you are aware, you manage this and you are ultimately responsible for this, and you could have prevented this.'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 30, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")