Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Grandma's house encounters obstacles
The Gelderlander
October 25, 2021 Monday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 10
Length: 694 words
Highlight: Anyone who wants to put a house in the garden for their frail mother often encounters obstacles. New legislation makes such an informal care home even more difficult. GroenLinks is presenting a memorandum today to remove bottlenecks.
Body


Informal care homes in trouble
Laurens Kok

Stolwijk

She may only be 68, but after three knee operations, Ria de Jong-Jonkers needs two sticks to walk. Shopping or putting the garbage out on the street is difficult.

Fortunately, she has her son Bram (38) close by. What is called: the teacher has moved to the parental home in Stolwijk with his wife and three children aged 5, 3 and 1. Ria still lives at the same address, but now has her own house in the garden.

According to Bram, the informal care home on his own property provides a win-win: "We are quickly there when my mother needs help, and she can keep the children busy while we vacuum or clean the windows." Grandma gets them regularly. 'about', to read a book with them or play a game.

This way she will have a nice old age, says Bram. "We obviously don't know how long she has left, but if she can see some of her grandchildren growing up so close, then those will be wonderful last years for her."

Yet it took a lot of effort to get the chalet into the garden. Although no permit is required for an informal care home - and therefore no fees have to be paid - as long as it can be demonstrated that intensive informal care is involved. But two years ago, Bram mainly encountered obstacles at the municipality.

It was first said that Mrs. de Jong was still 'too good' to be allowed to build such a house without a permit. She did not use care via the WMO. However, Bram had calculated that the family provided fourteen hours of informal care a week. Officials kept referring him to a new counter.

Ultimately, an informal care declaration from the GP provided the green light, even though such a declaration is not officially a requirement and not every GP is willing to cooperate. "I don't think many municipalities know what to do with an informal care home," he says.

MantelzorgNL also has that impression. The interest in such a house in the garden is increasing every year.

However, the interest group often receives signals about municipalities that assess the informal care provided as not intensive enough. Sometimes it takes months to confirm that a permit is indeed not necessary - even though the help is urgent. "There was an 89-year-old mother who was developing dementia," says Fleur Kusters of MantelzorgNL. "And yet the municipality doubted whether she should go into the permit process. While you know that things will only get worse for that lady. "

According to Kusters, the government should welcome and encourage people if they are willing to provide informal care. "The fact that people want to place an informal care home on their property is completely in line with the government's call that we take care of each other. But the way things are working out now, it often works against informal caregivers."
environmental code
In addition, the new Environmental Act will come into effect on July 1, 2022. Each municipality can then decide for itself whether an informal care home can be built without a permit. The intention is that there will be fewer rules and municipalities will have more freedom, but Mantelzorg NL is afraid that municipalities will create even more obstacles if residents want to put a house in their garden for their frail mother. Kusters: "There are municipalities that do think along, but things are not running smoothly everywhere. With this Environmental Act, we are really taking a step back."

This fear is now also being heard in The Hague. Today, the House is considering a memorandum from GroenLinks on housing and elderly care. MP Corinne Ellemeet wants the cabinet to remove existing obstacles and for the new law to be amended. "We must ensure that people can take care of each other when necessary," she says.

Ellemeet points out that many elderly people will be added in the next twenty years and that the waiting lists for nursing homes have grown considerably. "It is frustrating how little the past government has done to solve the enormous problems of appropriate housing and care for the elderly."
There are municipalities that do think along, but it does not run smoothly everywhere

View the original page: page 10

Graphic

 
Ria de Jong-Jonkers (left) with her son Bram de Jong (middle) and his wife and children at the family's informal care home in Stolwijk. Photo Frank de Roo

Load Date: October 24, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")