Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Help' minister outlawed
The Gelderlander
October 30, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General
Length: 654 words
Byline: BY TOBIAS DEN HARTOG AND LAURENS KOK
Body


Less prestige, but a lot of work every day. "A minister may not fall, but a state secretary can."
Vile joke in the Binnenhof from the opposition: A working day for State Secretary Wilma Mansveld? Struggling with the NS, ProRail, the Fyra, the problems around Schiphol, the hassle at Air France-KLM, air safety after the MH17 disaster and greening the tax system.
A working day for Minister Melanie Schultz? The unveiling of a speed sign (130 km/h! Hooray!) along the A15.
It may be an exaggeration, but the division of labor between the ministers in the Rutte cabinet is suddenly a subject of discussion. Didn't Mansveld (PvdA) have too heavy a portfolio? And didn't Minister Schultz (VVD) get away with a 'fun package' too easily?
Ministers and state secretaries divide the tasks upon taking office. Considerations include: who likes what, where are the talents and - not unimportant - which file fits which political color. Asphalt and VVD are a good match, just as the environment and PvdA are obvious.
Things were no different in 2012 with Mansveld and Schultz. The latter also saw an enormous task in the Environmental Act (although less sexy and sensitive) and wanted something other than the railway. There was no question of passing the buck, say those involved.
In addition, as a minister in Rutte-I and before that as State Secretary, Schultz also had a lot to do with the HSL, but never ran into political problems. Mansveld had the House on her neck almost immediately after taking office. Wouldn't Schultz simply be a more competent director, VVD members wonder?
Prime Minister Mark Rutte leaves it open whether Mansveld's successor will have a smaller range of tasks. "We continue to look for balance." It would not be the first time that there has been a reshuffle. Recently, Minister Ard van der Steur (Security, VVD) took over work from his State Secretary Klaas Dijkhoff, who has his hands full with the flow of refugees.
It is striking that during this cabinet period, four state secretaries have already been able to take up their duties, compared to only one minister, Ivo Opstelten. And those who are still there are having a hard time, such as Martin van Rijn (Public Health) and Jetta Klijnsma (Social Affairs). It is no coincidence that they are responsible for implementing major reforms that this government has implemented.
Isn't the 'minister's assistant' by definition more likely to be ignored? "The State Secretary is a difficult figure," says Anne Bos, researcher at the Center for Parliamentary History in Nijmegen. "His portfolio can quickly be too light or too heavy." In PvdA circles it is emphatically stated that Mansveld has never complained about her workload. It is pointed out that this is also not mentioned in the report on the Fyra.
Bos points out that coalition parties often protect important pawns in the cabinet more fiercely than a simple state secretary. "After the Bijlmer disaster survey, ministers Annemarie Jorritsma (VVD) and Els Borst (D66) came under heavy fire. Because they were both deputy prime minister, they were not allowed to fall. That would have meant the end of the cabinet. In the case of Mansveld can the cabinet continue."
Complaining about the workload is rare in The Hague. CDA member Hans Hillen did it in Rutte-I, when as Minister of Defense he had to do without the usual State Secretary. Furthermore, it just depends on what comes your way as a minister. Mansveld was unexpectedly faced with one problem after another, while someone like Camiel Eurlings, for example, survived well as Minister of Transport, even though his package included road policy, rail and aviation. Hillen: "His State Secretary Tineke Huizinga had such a small portfolio that she could manage with a three-day working week."
'The State Secretary is a difficult figure. His portfolio is quickly either too light or too heavy' (Anne Bos researcher)

Graphic

 
Minister Schultz and former State Secretary Mansveld. --PHOTO SOURCE--photo Cor Salverius

Load Date: October 30, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")