Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Hulst hopes to gain support through citizens' participation in the design of an emergency shelter building
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 4, 2024 Monday 09:48 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 452 words
Byline: René Hoonhorst
Body


Local residents, companies and stakeholders who want to participate in the discussion about the design of a flexible emergency shelter on the Hulster Railway should not drop out during the consultation. The more people involved in drawing up a plan, the more wishes and desires can be included in that plan.
Mayor Ilona Jense-van Haarst emphasized that B and W would prefer to see as many people as possible participate in drawing up a plan for the most ideal design of emergency shelter. If people do not (do not want to) cooperate with the plan, their arguments will not be taken into account and will not be heard. The municipal council has previously included conditions such as sufficient guidance, care and education for asylum seekers. It would also be nice if asylum seekers came who wanted to continue living in the region after obtaining status. Tom Willaert (own list) would like to add that Hulst as a municipality can close emergency shelters if residents cause 'long-term nuisance'.
Layout of the reception area
Those involved who want to participate in the plan through a sounding board group and by invitation cannot prevent the arrival of emergency shelter. They can, however, provide ideas about the layout of the plot. For example, they can indicate where entrances to emergency shelters should be located in order to cause as little inconvenience as possible.
Wishes regarding lighting and plants can also ensure that any nuisance is limited and people feel safer. For example, participants in the plan can also provide ideas about activities for future residents. "Because", the mayor knew, "refugees have been sitting on a folding chair in Reynaertland since October 2022 without having anything to do. That is frustrating for everyone. Preconditions can be included in the plan to ensure their stay in the shelter as enjoyable as possible for both refugees and local residents.”
The mayor finds it 'quite exciting' that citizens are directly involved in a plan that is also used to establish the environmental law. If residents (accompanied by two professionals) draw up conditions that give them confidence that the nuisance caused by emergency shelter can be limited, there will be support for housing asylum seekers. If people also look for ways to help future residents of the flexible shelter and keep them busy, it will cut both ways, municipal officials hope.
Hulst would like to discuss the plan of the sounding board group and other involved parties at the end of May. If the environmental permit is applied for in July, the reception building must be constructed this autumn in order to open early next year.

Load Date: April 29, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")