Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Hulst is not interested in a manure digester at Terhole
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 13, 2024 Wednesday 05:32 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 635 words
Byline: Ab van der Sluis
Body


The municipality of Hulst is not cooperating with the arrival of a manure digester at Terhole. Councilor Jean-Paul Hageman (Spatial Planning, Permits) believes that such a biogas plant belongs on an industrial estate in the municipality of Terneuzen.
The plans for a manure digester, where 120,000 tons of manure must be processed annually into green gas and digestate (dry, organic manure), are still in their infancy. The intention is that there will ultimately be two manure digesters: one near Terhole and another in the municipality of Sluis. The presentation took place on Wednesday.
Biogas plants are interesting because they provide a significant reduction in ammonia and methane emissions. The province is positive about manure digesters, because they provide environmental benefits.
The idea is that thirty livestock farmers from the east of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen regularly supply manure to the biogas plant. They have to invest heavily in closed stable floors for this. Scrapers or manure robots transport the cow manure to a small manure cellar. This immediately reduces methane emissions on farms by a quarter. Ammonia emissions in the stables are even reduced by 40 percent.
Location not chosen by chance
The biogas plant itself runs on supplying green gas to Stedin's regional gas network. Around 1,600 homes could be heated by the manure digester at Terhole. That location on the N290 was not chosen by chance. If the biogas factory is built at that location, as few manure trucks as possible will have to drive back and forth over longer distances, which is also beneficial for the environment. The average transport distance for each livestock farmer is 7.5 kilometers. "After all, you don't want to lug manure back and forth over great distances," says initiator Joop Colsen, of the Environmental Technology Consultancy of the same name.
Councilor Hageman spoke clear words during the presentation meeting. “We are not participating in this. Business activities belong on an industrial estate and not in the middle of the polder. I am clear about that. I can name four or five reasons why the manure digester should not be located at Terhole: the zoning plan must be changed, the Environmental Act must be amended, what about access to the intended location at Terhole, what about Natura 2000? All of this will take years and years until the Council of State. Let us also be clear: I think it is a fantastic project, but not at this location.”
The municipalities are responsible for granting an environmental permit. They must take into account provincial policy, laid down in the Zeeland Environmental Regulation. This regulation states that there is room for a manure digester in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, but only on an industrial estate of at least one hectare and near the greenhouse building area on the Axelse Vlakte. An environmental permit is also required for a manure digester.
'We do not issue a blank cheque'
Deputy Wilfried Nielen (BBB, nitrogen problem) said that the province is positive about a manure digester, but that the ball is in the municipality of Hulst. In principle, the province has promised 400,000 euros in the preparation costs of the manure digester. Nielen said he thought it was a 'charming' project. "It is also important for us as a province that we reduce ammonia and nitrogen emissions. But we do not guarantee that the installation will be completed. We are not issuing a blank check.”
Colsen was not deterred by the clear attitude of the Hulster councilor. If the Terhole location is not feasible, he will look for another place. "But then you accept that there will be more transport movements. "

Load Date: March 13, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")