Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=During corona times, Nathalie built a terrace at her restaurant and it now has to go: 'I am desperate'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 7, 2023 Tuesday 05:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 659 words
Byline: André Oerlemans
Body


She must demolish the terrace that she was allowed to build during corona times to survive, under penalty of a penalty. She has until Friday. Owner Nathalie Heezen of restaurant Jut & Jul is desperate and furious with the municipality of Papendrecht. “Why is this not allowed?”
Heezen has been running the restaurant on the Veerpromenade for four years. She comes from a real catering family, worked in various restaurants and at the end of 2019 her dream of having her own business came true. Ten weeks later - on March 15, 2020 - it turned into a nightmare when the entire catering industry in the Netherlands had to close due to the corona pandemic. Heezen immediately switched to survival mode. “The following Saturday we started delivering sandwiches and meals like a rocket. The whole of Papendrecht had our number."
Because the catering industry was only allowed to receive guests outside that summer, she applied for a permit for a terrace with a roof. It was rejected. "But without a terrace we couldn't make any money. I then called councilor Arno Janssen and he said: 'Build it'. At that time, the municipality tried to help the catering industry in all kinds of ways."
Business saved from destruction
In the basin of the dike, an unusable space, she installed a wooden deck with room for 45 chairs. She rested the awning on a steel frame. It saved her business from collapse.
Like the council, the judge finds that the canopy is a structure and not a sunshade, even though it is collapsible
During the second lockdown of eight months, she turned her restaurant into a popular chip shop. Her terrace was allowed to open again by the municipality in mid-2021. But in 2022, that benevolent attitude disappeared. Heezen had to apply for a permit, but did not receive one. The aesthetics committee thought a terrace was conceivable, but not in this form. Other advisory bodies, such as the local mobility scooter club and the WMO council, saw no obstacles and gave positive advice.
Suddenly a penalty
Nevertheless, the council decided in September last year that Heezen had to demolish the roof. The terrace itself could receive a temporary permit for seven years. She was told this on November 7. No longer from councilor Arno Janssen (PAB), but from his colleague Sophia de Keizer (VVD). According to Heezen, she promised to help find solutions, but a month later a penalty suddenly arrived.
Jut & Jul had to dismantle the awning within four weeks, otherwise they would face a fine of 15,000 euros. Heezen objected, but this was ultimately rejected in August of this year. She filed summary proceedings, but lost in October. Just like the Papendrecht Municipal Executive, the judge finds that the canopy is a structure and not a sunshade, even though it is collapsible. This is not allowed according to the Environmental Act and the terrace policy. Everything must be taken down before Friday, November 10.
Cry for help to the municipality
She has been desperate ever since. Like some council members, she thinks this is a form of business bullying. “I can't live without my terrace. I have sent another cry for help to the municipality, but I have simply not received a response. Why can't I make a covered terrace here? Don't other catering establishments around here also have that? Promises are made all the time that are not kept. The municipality of Papendrecht is letting us drown as entrepreneurs.”
According to a spokesperson for the municipality, other catering entrepreneurs who received a temporary permit during corona times subsequently removed their patio covers. Jut & Jul did not want that and that is why the municipality had to take enforcement action. “There are rules and they apply to everyone,” he says. “We would like to think about what is possible, but we must adhere to the law.”
Comment? Letters can be sent to our readers' editors (with first, last name and address, the latter not for publication). A reader letter is a maximum of 150 words and can be shortened. We do not post anonymous letters.

Load Date: November 7, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")