Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Architect stressed about neighborhood resistance to 'slightly provocative' facade
The Limburger
December 4, 2021 Saturday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 10
Length: 713 words
Byline: Joos Philippens
Body


He himself calls the facade on Maastricht's Aylvalaan 'at most the beginning of a provocation.' Architect Mathieu Bruls considers the resistance to it a phenomenon of our time. "I suffered incredibly from it."
In the chic Maastricht Sint-Pieter district, architect Mathieu Bruls was commissioned to adapt and expand an existing house on Aylvalaan. He couldn't design as extreme as he wanted. "This design is at most the beginning of a provocation."
Yet his first draft met with 28 objections. "I came up with a glass building block facade above the bay window on the ground floor, to illustrate my idea that we are now half cybers. We live 50 percent in a physical world and 50 percent in an interface world, which is what the facade wanted to resemble. However, half the street did not grant the owner the facade he wanted. We call that 'freedom of expression'."
Bruls thought he was doing well with the first design. "But I was treated unfairly. They recruited colleagues for a counter-report. The municipality went along with this, even though the permit had already been granted. We solved it. The planned glass becomes Brazilian masonry bond that you look through. With round windows behind it like an abstract, molecular structure, through which light shines." It took a lot of effort, partly from his own wallet. "All those hours, the sadness and the annoyance cannot of course be expressed in money "I suffered incredibly from it."
Bruls believes that his design fits well into the environment, including the round windows. “Just before the First World War, people came to live here full of optimism. They had money, gave the architect a free hand. One side of the street has a cacophony of fancy, beautiful facades."
At the time of the stock market crisis, small-scale project development took over, with more uniform construction. “Those houses then became approximately the same width and height, with many of the same materials. To the layman the street may now seem like a unity, but it is not; At the time, many people were eager to stand out."
Design
Bruls' design is actually just as fancy as that of more than a century ago. There will be an extra floor on the existing house and an open space of two floors in the middle of the house. “A kind of void without a clear function, where other rooms look out. A place for contemplation, reflection, something that we do not yet fully understand," Bruls describes. "I would like to stand up for the arts, where 'not fully understanding' is also the goal."
Of course, some control is fine. "Give 'starchitects' free rein and they often go off the rails. To the point of vulgarity. But the aesthetics committee now only monitors the established patterns, while I believe in innovation by a few 'crazies' who dare to avoid slavish imitation."
It is immediately an almost political statement. "We seem to want to live more and more superficially, as slaves to the American consumer society. We play the free man, but in our rejection of communism we forget that capitalism is the second worst system. We are taught that it is never enough, the stress of choice causes a lot of unrest on the streets."
Knowledge hierarchy
Bruls states, somewhat bitterly, that 'democracy has degenerated into the participation of as many people as possible'. “While society really cannot do without a knowledge hierarchy. Through my profession I often unintentionally feel like a therapist. We live in a schizophrenic world. We suggest being super tolerant and intelligent; but don't touch someone's perceived private interest. The new Environmental Act will strengthen this enormously. The environment becomes more influential. I predict a death, because one person does not like the color of the other's dormer."
Where does all this fuss in Aylvalaan lead? "I invite everyone to indicate the difference between the glass and what is being built now in ten years' time. Very clever if you can do that, because the plan has remained intact at its core. A slumbering seniors' neighborhood gets more spice. The house will do fantastic on the street, surrounded by so much beauty."
We suggest being super tolerant and intelligent; but don't touch someone's perceived private interest.
Mathieu Bruls
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 3, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")