Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Information evening about drill cage
The Gelderlander
June 9, 2017 Friday
Liemers Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 1
Length: 418 words
Byline: CARINE TEN CATE
Highlight: The five Doesburgers behind the plan for a replica of an old punishment instrument are trying to gain support on neutral ground.
Body


Doesburg divided over construction of replica old torture device
The initiators who want to install a replica of the drill cage in front of the town hall in Doesburg will soon provide explanations to the population at an information evening. The five men do this at the express request of the municipal council because of all the commotion that has arisen about the replica of this eighteenth century punishment instrument.

The meeting will be held on neutral ground. "That is a conscious choice, because we as a municipality do not want to be a party," says councilor Ellen Mulder. “We facilitate the evening, but we do not commit ourselves to it. We have issued an environmental permit for the replica of the drill cage. However, the new environmental law states that there must be support among residents for new initiatives."

The resistance to the drill cage (also called a rotating cage) is great. More than 100 objections have been filed against the plan. Two objectors also wrote a letter to the Doesburg municipal council. This letter is included in the documents received for the next council meeting and the CDA has already announced its opposition to the plan.

Opponents find the drill cage sexist. They associate it with the cages that Islamic State uses to sell women into slavery. During the fifty years that it was in Doesburg, the spinning cage was only imposed as a punishment on vulnerable women and prostitutes. They were placed on a chair in the cage and turned around in it, in two directions. Until they had to vomit and then they were sent out of the city. Other objections are that it is historicizing, it worsens the clutter on that corner of the town hall and the replica obscures the view of the statue of Saint Martin in a niche in the wall. There are also proponents. "You usually don't hear these people," explains Alderman Mulder. "It is the opponents who are stirring."

Reportedly, the initiators regularly receive a thumbs up from passers-by in the center as encouragement. Ben Polman, one of the five men, receives a lot of support on Facebook. From 'real Doesburgers who understand it' and who clearly see the added value of it. In their view, the drill cage has a great tourist attraction and it makes history tangible.

At the request of the municipality, the initiators now refrain from commenting.
We facilitate the evening, but do not commit ourselves to it

View the original page: page 1, page 1

Graphic

 
This is where the infamous drill cage stood in the past.

Load Date: June 9, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")