Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Intervening evokes anger and understanding
The Gelderlander
July 14, 2017 Friday
Valley Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 2, 3
Length: 430 words
Byline: ARNOLD SHOP
Highlight: Good Wageningen is angry, the university shows understanding. Differing reactions to the provincial plan on city accessibility.
Body


WAGENINGEN Accessibility
"Scandalous." The reaction of Patrick Jansen of Mooi Wageningen to the intervention of the province of Gelderland in the decision-making process about the accessibility of Wageningen leaves little to be desired in terms of clarity. "The province is frustrating Wageningen's process to improve accessibility completely."

Mooi Wageningen will keep a close eye on developments. "We already know the ways to object. But we would rather see the province put energy into solving the real problems, such as tackling cut-through traffic from the A12 to the A50." Jansen is still cautious. "The Provincial Executive (GS) wants it , but the Provincial Council (PS) still has to agree to it."

Antoon Kanis does not dare to predict whether PS will approve the intervention. "I have no idea which way things are going," says the Wageningen D66 member of the Provincial Council. "It is now recess and I do not know whether we will receive any additional information. I have noticed that GS very quickly after Wageningen council decision comes with his wish to intervene."

Kanis knows that the Provincial Council does not just blindly honor GS's every wish. "We review all proposals for content."

Wageningen UR understands that the province wants to take over control. ,,Unfortunately. We had agreed to cooperate in the mayor and aldermen's route proposal. We thought that was a realistic plan. We don't like the council's amended plan at all. That is the worst possible scenario, with the intersection of two buildings and the test fields," said spokesperson Simon Vink. "It is unfortunate that something like this has come to fruition after so many years of consultation. So yes, it is understandable that the province is taking over control. ."
Ridiculous
Wageningen Goed op Weg is surprised by GS's response. "It's ridiculous how quickly they come up with the integration plan," says leader Peter Spitteler. "It seems like a preconceived plan by the province."

However, he also sees opportunities. "It would be great if we could now solve the problems surrounding accessibility together, with the new environmental law in mind."

He is considering, among other things, good western access to the campus and looking at mobility management. "We have a whole book ready, in which we have serious solutions. With great support in Wageningen society."
We have a whole book ready, containing serious solutions

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Graphic

 
The area of ​​the ring road, seen from the Dijkgraaf star flat.

Load Date: July 14, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")