Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Housing construction participation: ask questions carefully'
The Limburger
September 22, 2023 Friday
Maastricht


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5
Length: 322 words
Body


The Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, which requires citizen participation. Ron Koenen of the Maastricht KPE Group sees a lot of uncertainty. "There are many questions among local residents, such as 'if I do not go to a participation meeting, can I still submit an objection?' Municipalities are also searching. "Do we limit our role to that of an observer or do we take the lead? ?' Developers wonder when it is best to involve the environment and with what information."
That is why Koenen is setting up the Institute for Participation in Real Estate Development (IPV), a neutral process supervisor. “We are investigating how you can arrive at a kind of standard approach. Do you need to determine the number of meetings or distinguish certain phases?"
The starting point is always: what can a developer build on his property, what is allowed? “That is the framework. We then ask the question: environment, what do you think? For example, if the neighborhood is not happy with a twelve-storey tower, the developer will consider: will the quality be guaranteed with a lower tower, will it still be suitable for the intended target group, will there still be sufficient return?
IPV is now running pilots, such as the Apostelengang. There it prepares reports of consultation meetings. The first was for the wider environment, but things have now changed. Now the immediate residents are discussed first. Koenen explains: "A first evening like this offers an idea of ​​what is going on, how is everyone doing? For example, for people living directly nearby, this concerns noise pollution or shadows. Those who live further away may be concerned about parking or traffic. By separating this, less noise is created."
The neighbors should be able to think about solutions, he believes. “That also requires careful questioning, because people often get stuck in vagueness. Unsafe, what exactly is that, what do you mean? Or green, is that a lawn or do you mean trees?"
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")