Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Intensive livestock farming on the industrial estate'
The Gelderlander
December 8, 2018 Saturday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2018 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4, 5
Length: 655 words
Byline: LUKAS VAN DER STORM
Highlight: What will the Netherlands look like in the future? Top government advisors agree on one thing: intensive livestock farming does not belong in the countryside.
Body


vision of the future of government advisors
There is still room for intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands of the future. But on an industrial estate, and no longer in the countryside. This is stated by the Board of Government Advisors, an important advisory body for the central government, in the Panorama Netherlands vision for the future presented the day before yesterday. "It is time that we treat intensive livestock farming as an industry," says board chairman and government architect Floris Alkemade from Sint-Oedenrode. "In the past, the countryside was the most logical place to keep animals. But due to economies of scale, the logic has disappeared. landscape has disappeared. There are too many industrial elements that affect the quality of the countryside."

In essence, he sees the heated discussions in the Brabant countryside mainly as a problem in the field of spatial planning. "The pain can be traced back to agriculture that has developed, but fits less and less well with the existing structure of the countryside."
Dissatisfaction
It leads to a government that continually tries to adjust regulations, to the frustration of farmers. And growing dissatisfaction among citizens who experience nuisance from the agricultural sector. "Ultimately, we must move towards agriculture that produces as much as the landscape can handle." Alkemade and his colleagues presented their vision the day before yesterday in the Panorama Mesdag museum in The Hague. The future of agriculture was - in addition to water, mobility and energy - a of the main themes.
Unrest
The reason is the new Environmental Act, which is radically overhauling spatial policy in the Netherlands. "We are facing major challenges in the areas of climate, mobility and the future of the landscape," explains Alkemade. "That leads to unrest and uncertainty; with this panorama we want to look ahead with an optimistic view. So that there is also a desire may arise in the future."

In that optimistic final picture, the countryside has become a place where many farmers are still active. "I hate to see all those farmers quitting," the government architect continues. "We really need them in the future." To produce food, but also to shape the new Dutch landscape. "Farmers have a lot of experience in the field of water and soil management." Agriculture in the countryside should become extensive and land-based. Intensive livestock farming, but also greenhouse horticulture, for example, will move to special 'agro parks' at strategic locations near important infrastructural facilities. nodes.

According to the government advisors, to achieve this change, a new deal between farmers and society is needed. Where the farmer earns a fair income without always having to reason from maximizing production at the lowest possible costs. Almost everyone is interested in that view, Alkemade notes. “I recently presented this vision to the members' council of the LTO. And although it contains far-reaching principles, the vast majority appeared willing to think about those kinds of changes."
Transitional Fund
The question is how to arrive at that end picture. The government will also have to stick its neck out for this. "If farmers transform their business operations, it turns out that they need five or six years to get their revenue model back in order. There should be a transition fund that helps farmers bridge that period as they transition to sustainable business practices."

At the same time, small-scale initiatives can help with the transition. By inspiring others or growing into something bigger yourself. “Take the Herenboeren concept, where a group of citizens employs a farmer. The intermediate steps in the chain disappear, the farmer earns a living and the food does not become much more expensive."
Due to an increase in scale, logic has disappeared from the landscape

View the original page: page 4, page 5

Graphic

 
An impression of the new Brabant landscape, as outlined in the Panorama Netherlands vision for the future presented yesterday.
The most important themes of the future vision are agriculture, water, mobility and energy.

Load Date: December 7, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")