Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Argos: 'Heros violates environmental rules'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 26, 2024 Friday 04:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 577 words
Byline: Ab van der Sluis
Body


Companies throughout the Netherlands do not comply with stricter rules to combat air pollution. This is evident from research by journalistic research platform Argos. Since this year, large-scale storage of substances that can be blown away by the wind must take place in a closed space, instead of in the open air. One of those companies is Heros in Sluiskil.
The new Environmental Act, which came into effect this year, contains stricter rules for the storage of 'dust-sensitive substances'. These are substances that can be blown away in wind and dry weather - such as sand and combustion ash - over the environment, resulting in risks such as air pollution, nuisance to local residents and damage to health.
Hundreds of companies in the Netherlands store such substances on a large scale in the open air. But according to Article 4.1065 of the Living Environment Activities Decree, which falls under the Environmental Act, this is no longer allowed this year. To comply with European standards and limit emissions of hazardous substances, storage must now be indoors.
The Waste Companies Association, which includes many companies that must comply with the new rule, says that the Environmental Act may have a much greater impact on their industry than anticipated. In an interview with Argos, recycling company Heros initially stated that the new rules did not apply to them. They also say that they have not been informed by their trade association about the tightened rules.
Clarification
Critical residents from Sluiskil will soon send a letter to the province requesting clarification about the rules in the new Environmental Act.
According to recent research by DCMR Environmental Service Rijnmond, there does not seem to be much wrong with the air quality in Sluiskil for the time being. Laboratory technicians examined sixty air samples from October 2022 to October 2023, but their conclusions were the same in all cases: the measured values ​​are well lower than permitted.
Even if the worst scenario is assumed, in which the maximum measured daily value would be present all year round, the concentrations would still be far below the limit and guide values, the environmental service concludes. During the study, the service took into account different wind directions and a proportional distribution of the number of wet and dry days.
Due to the industry and passing shipping in the village, measurements were mainly made for the presence of heavy metals, such as arsenic, cadmium, lead, molybdenum, nickel, vanadium and iron. From a northeasterly direction, the measured values ​​for lead and iron (and to a lesser extent cadmium and vanadium) appeared to be clearly higher than from other directions.
Continue measuring
The air quality in Sluiskil has been measured since 2020 in a station on Stroodorpestraat. Concentrations of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides are monitored on behalf of the province. At the end of 2022, the measuring station was expanded with measuring equipment for ultrafine dust.
CDA municipal councilor Loek de Beleir from Terneuzen has been working on the air quality dossier for years. To his surprise, various investigations over the past three years have not led to clarity. In December last year he forced a new investigation with a motion. These additional measurements will be taken this year.
Argos broadcast: 'Village covered in dust'. Sunday, April 28 at 10:40 PM on TV on NPO 2. Can be viewed from Saturday via NPO Start. Saturday April 27 at 2 p.m. on NPO Radio 1.
Also view our video reports:

Load Date: April 26, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")