Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Heuvelland residents get to work themselves
The Limburger
April 17, 2024 Wednesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: LIVEABILITY; Page 6
Length: 517 words
Body


Residents of the Heuvelland themselves are looking for a 'real' solution to the traffic problems in the Heuvelland. The starting point is the quality of life of the villages and hamlets.
The residents' platform Lijn 50 Traffic Livability has been transformed into a foundation with the same name. "As a legal entity you can also conduct legal proceedings," says Cor Hanssen, one of the initiators.
Although that is certainly not a goal in itself, he adds in the same breath: "We want to prevent legal proceedings by looking for real solutions, but from the perspective of the residents."
The platform was created during corona times during the digital discussions about tourist traffic in the Heuvelland.
"We saw that all kinds of groups were represented by official organizations and bodies," explains board member Paul Merk. "Tourism, agriculture, the catering industry, the middle class. Only not the residents, they sat at the table as individuals. That is why we we united in a platform, so that we too were taken seriously."
Traffic viability
After the fiasco surrounding the Responsible Road project group, the residents' platform continued, with the recent step being the establishment of a foundation.
"Traffic engineers mainly look at figures and numbers," notes Merk. "But traffic quality cannot be measured and captured in data. For traffic engineers, a road may not yet be at its maximum capacity in terms of traffic supply, but that says nothing about how the residents experience that."
Sound
The foundation will soon receive the green light from the municipality of Eijsden-Margraten to focus on three concrete projects: establishing the maximum noise load in the General Regulation and limiting crowds on the Mergelland route and on the route from Margraten via Sint-Geertruid to Eijsden. The foundation is now developing an action plan. If this is approved, the foundation of traffic councilor Jan Weling can get to work.
The foundation would also like to take up the challenge in the two other Lijn 50 municipalities (Gulpen-Wittem and Vaals). But this is only possible if municipalities have laid down the so-called Challenge Right in a formal arrangement.
So far, only Eijsden-Margraten has done that. "This may soon be included in the new Environmental Act," explains Cor Hanssen, "but we are not that far yet; Eijsden-Margraten is in fact ahead of this."
Residents
The intention is that the foundation will soon provide possible solutions for the identified bottlenecks, with or without a number of variants.
"We do not make any decisions ourselves," Merk emphasizes. "That remains the responsibility of the municipalities. We only indicate how you could tackle a problem if you look at the situation from the residents' point of view. Then you look at the world sometimes slightly different than behind a drawing table in an office."
As a resident you sometimes view the world slightly differently than from behind a drawing table in an office.
Paul Merk, Line 50 Traffic Quality
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 16, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")