Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Residents can have their say
The Gelderlander
February 3, 2020 Monday
Betuwe Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 17
Length: 425 words
Byline: LEX HALSEMA
Highlight: Driel, Randwijk, Slijk-Ewijk and Valburg will receive a new zoning plan. Residents are expressly asked for input. The municipality of Overbetuwe calls it flexible zoning. What does that actually mean?
Body


The term flexible refers more to the zoning plan itself than to the process of creating it. The current zoning plans regulate in quite detail what is and is not allowed. "We want to formulate the new zoning plans more broadly, so that more is possible," explains councilor Wijnte Hol. Overbetuwe is therefore anticipating the new Environmental Act, in which the regulatory burden will also be much lower. Yet these new zoning plans do not constitute a license to do whatever one wants. The wishes of the villagers are also expressly taken into account.

How is that going to work then?

Officials talk to residents in the villages themselves. The wishes are mapped out. For example, about housing needs, infrastructure such as roads, cycle and pedestrian paths or social functions of a building or area. But also the question of whether rules should be established regarding the height of garden fences, for example.

Fewer rules and then whining about garden fences?

Here too, the villagers themselves have control. The first discussions have already been held in Randwijk. The idea of ​​being able to determine for yourself how high you can make the garden fence initially seemed to go well. But after the announcement that this freedom also applies to all neighbors, there was a need for regulations again.

And who will get their way?

The majority of residents will decide that. Overbetuwe will make statements based on all these inventory discussions. General ones for all four villages, but also specific statements for each village. In the case of fences, this statement would be that people should be allowed to decide for themselves, or that rules should be imposed. Residents can vote on these statements via a municipal website. If a statement is supported by more than 80 percent of voters, that opinion is, as a rule, included in the zoning plan.

Not at 79 percent?

There is always room for discussion about figures. Overbetuwe does not want to make zoning plans that rely on 51 percent of the votes cast. That 80 percent was chosen to ensure support. Statements that score between 51 and 79 percent are discussed again and, if necessary, presented again.

So the citizens in power?

Not directly, because the final word ultimately remains with the municipal council. The interests of residents who completely withdraw from the process must also be taken into account.
We want to formulate the plans more broadly, so that more is possible.

View the original page: page 17

Graphic

 
Do you, like your neighbor, want to decide for yourself how high the garden fence can be? In the Betuwe villages, residents can choose.

Load Date: February 2, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")