Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ended up in a different world in one year
The Limburger
December 27, 2022 Tuesday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: DRIVER SOLBS; Page 37
Length: 1021 words
Byline: Peter Heesen
Body


When Janine Godderij took over as director of ZOwonen in Sittard 4.5 years ago, she was able to work without any worries. The corporation is now reaching its limits and making difficult choices is necessary. "Something is really going on."
It hurts her "a lot". Director Janine Godderij (43) of ZOwonen notices that more and more people are having difficulty paying the rent. Almost one in ten tenants is in arrears with payments. The average debt is 1,500 euros, which amounts to approximately 2.5 months' rent. Godderij expects that the problems are mainly caused by the high energy costs. She thinks it is bad for the people, but also for the corporation. And that at a time when every euro counts , apparently.
She took over as director 4.5 years ago and feels like a fish in water with the social organization. It not only provides a good, affordable home for people with a limited budget, but is also committed to increasing the self-reliance and equal opportunities of every resident. Moreover, the corporation has the position and resources to make a difference. Godderij still thinks it is a "super fun job", but she also notes: "Damn it, in one year it has become a different world."
Financial risk
The 2023 budget was adopted last month. In order not to take too great a financial risk, a line was drawn up with an investment of 25 million euros over the next five years. "There is really something going on," says Godderij. "If we do not make choices, we will reach the limits of what is financially acceptable. If we have this as a financially healthy corporation, it also applies to many other corporations. ." Because many people do not know about it or turn a blind eye to it, she would like to explain where the problem lies. To create understanding, increase the sense of urgency, but also to look for solutions together. With the emphasis on 'together'.
What corporations are suffering from is an unprecedented accumulation of ambitions, especially from Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge, Godderij believes. In his State of Public Housing he recently laid out all the plans to reduce the housing shortage in particular. By 2030, 900,000 homes must be built, a third of which will be for the elderly. For Limburg this means 26,000 homes. The corporations must double the number of new homes. They must also properly insulate their existing homes, without existing tenants having to pay more. Furthermore, rents must be reduced.
Level of reality
Janine Godderij is happy with the dot on the horizon, especially because such wishes are also on ZOwonen's list. However, she wonders what the level of reality is. "Just like that, 100,000 homes are added every year, which is very easy if you don't have to realize them. Such a minister does not realize that the implementation of a plan can easily take 3.5 years and often even 5. It is not that easy to add homes."
She points out that ZOwonen cannot easily obtain land to build new homes. The corporation is often dependent on land from third parties, such as municipalities. That is why she would like to enter into discussions with the municipalities to investigate what the regional task is and how it can be achieved. "I hope that there will not soon be a plan to which we can only give a quick response, without having had a thorough discussion about the content."
Construction costs
If there are any projects, there are plenty of obstacles. Godderij sums up: “You have the nitrogen problem. Construction costs have risen sharply, as have interest rates. We borrowed ten million euros in February at an interest rate of 0.5 percent. In October, the interest rate had risen to 3.5 to 4 percent." She looks forward to the introduction of the new Environmental Act with fear and trembling, because it offers local residents more room for participation, among other things. She welcomes the people, but fears that it leads to significant delays. "Every month of delay now leads to an increase in construction costs by 1 to 1.5 percent. This really involves a lot of money."
She argues that Minister De Jonge says that corporations will have a lot of extra room for investments due to the abolition of the landlord levy on January 1, a tax on owners of at least fifty rental properties. This yields an average of seven million euros per year for ZOwonen. "But we cannot do anything extra with that, because the interest costs alone will increase by six million euros next year."
Stuck
Janine Godderij has another example of how "gigantic" the corporation is in trouble. Corporations must accelerate their sustainability efforts. ZOwonen underlines this by setting the target that from 2025 all 14,500 homes will have at least an energy label D. Some of the homes However, this is not being addressed. These are homes that will be demolished in the short term to make room for new ones. Tenant organizations sometimes slap their hands on the table and point out that there are still homes with single glazing, says Godderij. “I understand that I. But if we now install new window frames with double glazing and the houses are demolished within a few years, that will be a huge destruction of capital. Because of the current energy prices, we can hardly explain this."
Rent reduction
Because ZOwonen is concerned about homes with single glazing, they have considered lowering the rent. "We are still discussing this with our tenant organizations. In any case, every extra gesture we want to make costs a lot of money, while we can slowly reach our limits. If The Hague then imposes on us how many homes we have to build, in the current economic situation this can only be done with lower quality at higher rents. I hope it doesn't come to that."
There's really something going on. If we don't make choices, we will reach the limits of what is financially acceptable. If we have this as a financially healthy corporation, it also applies to many other corporations.
Janine Godderij, director of ZOwonen
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 26, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")