Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Will there be enough concrete for all those houses? Is there concrete for all those new houses?; New construction
 Is there enough concrete for all ambitions? ; The granting of new permits for sand and gravel extraction is in danger of going wrong.
NRC
November 25, 2021 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: COVER PAGE; Page 1
Length: 1453 words
Byline: Sjoerd Klumpenaar
Dateline: Born
Body


ABSTRACT
Report Building materials
Sand and gravel companies are raising the alarm about a lack of extraction permits. Provinces consider themselves bound by sustainability requirements.
COMPLETE TEXT:
With a deafening thunder, a continuous stream of sand and pebbles rushes over the conveyor belts in Limburgs Born. Bulk ships moor on either side of the tens of meters high installation on the water, which are simultaneously loaded with gravel and sand. Near a large machine barrel, Michiel Dankers gestures enthusiastically as if he is hitting two imaginary cymbals together. "Look (...) crushing plant!" can just be heard with the roar of the machine, from which the larger pebbles indeed roll off the belt as small gravel.
Dankers is director of sand and gravel producer NV Niba, which participates in the consortium that operates the Limburg Grensmaas extraction project. More than a million tons of sand and gravel will be extracted this year from the 1,100 hectare area where the Meuse is being widened. The pebbles are scooped from the bed of the Meuse by excavators and sorted in the installations, cleaned and then broken into processable gravel. Every week, a hundred full inland vessels sail back down the Maas to the processors, who mainly turn it into concrete.
The consortium of gravel producers has a permit to mine raw materials in Central and South Limburg until 2025, but after that it will be over and Grensmaas will become a nature reserve. Nijmegen NV Niba, like many industry peers, is therefore already looking for new projects, but is running into an administrative wall when granting permits, says Dankers in the quiet of a green construction site, a few minutes from the extraction project. “The well-known not in my back yard effect is now occurring in municipalities; Aldermen indicate that they only want to start a project if the province really has to. In turn, the provincial government says it will only issue a permit if the municipality supports the plan. And that is why we are now stuck, while we want to keep our work and our people going and our products are desperately needed." Dankers points to the pine walls of the construction site. "You will not build a million homes from this in 2030. "
Sector sounds the alarm
Primary construction raw materials such as industrial sand, gravel, clay and marl occur in various places in the Dutch soil. As a rule, the further upstream, the coarser the material. Gravel is often extracted in the basins of the Meuse, in the catchment area in South and Central Limburg. Coarse sand occurs further downstream in the Rhine and the Meuse. The most important provinces where extraction takes place are Limburg, Gelderland, North Brabant and Overijssel.
Cascade, the trade association that represents eighteen major gravel and sand producers, sounded the alarm in a letter to these four provinces last week. The sector accuses the government of, among other things, a "lack of urgency" in granting permits for new extraction projects or expansions of existing operations. The letter was also sent to the Ministries of Infrastructure and Water Management and the Interior.
Because a number of major projects will be completed over the next five years, the supply of primary raw materials is in danger of coming to a standstill, says Cascade chairman Leonie van der Voort. "Given the ambitions we have in the Netherlands for the construction of infrastructure and housing, this creates a major problem. The sand and gravel we need will have to be imported from Germany and Belgium - with all the associated costs and consequences for our footprint."
A study commissioned by the trade association shows that gravel will no longer be extracted in the Netherlands from 2025 if no new projects are identified. According to Cascade, the problems also arise from the extraction of gravel and industrial sand - these are needed for the production of asphalt and concrete, among other things. The extraction capacity of industrial sand would decrease by 30 percent every five years from 2025, unless new projects are added.
Decentralization
Until 2000, the allocation of gravel and sand extraction projects was a matter for the central government, which designated extraction sites and put contractors to work. This policy of 'targets' meant that the land companies mainly focused on their targets and the yield of raw materials - with the result that gaping extraction wells remained in the landscape and there was little participation from local residents.
Nowadays, issuing permits is a task for provinces. The sand and gravel sector was given more responsibility: when an application is submitted, it must come up with a plan for a new gravel extraction project in consultation with municipalities, which must also serve a social purpose. For example, in the Limburg Grensmaas project, a nature reserve is being developed and the river is being widened. The project contributed to the fact that the floods this summer caused relatively little damage on the Dutch side of the border.
Co Verdaas, professor of area development at TU Delft, sees it as positive that the gravel sector has more responsibility thanks to decentralization, but also sees the downside: "Decentralization causes problems when finding new projects. There is now no more 'ownership' in matching supply and demand for raw materials such as sand and gravel, while we still need primary raw materials for the time being."
Circular construction
The issue of new sand and gravel excavations also touches on the debate on 'circular' construction, in which the construction sector and politicians are looking for ways to make construction climate neutral. For example, the production of cement, which is necessary for concrete, is a significant emitter of CO2 (6 to 7 percent worldwide).
With the Environmental Act, which is to come into effect from July next year, the government is setting goals to become less dependent on polluting building materials such as concrete - which means less sand and gravel needs to be extracted. Construction companies are looking at ways to build with renewable raw materials such as wood. More and more project developers are coming up with initiatives for wooden homes. For example, it was agreed per covenant that 1 in 25 new Amsterdam houses will be made of wood from 2025, and construction company BAM announced last week that it would open a factory that can produce up to a thousand wooden homes annually.
Raw materials such as concrete and steel are also increasingly recycled - secondary raw materials in construction jargon. When introducing the new Environmental Act, provinces are obliged to reduce the use of primary construction raw materials as far as possible - and to focus on reuse. According to Professor Verdaas, it would not be surprising to manage the supply and demand of primary raw materials more centrally. "On the one hand, there needs to be a transition to a circular construction system, but the lead time for new extraction projects often takes years," says Verdaas. "It would make a difference if the government made an inventory with the provinces and until we became completely circular. takes a longer-term view of how many construction raw materials are needed."
Cascade chairman Van der Voort agrees: "It takes years to develop new projects, and it is an illusion that we can get by with only recycled concrete. After all, we build more than we destroy, and the population only continues to grow."
Will there be enough concrete to build all those houses?
Decentralization causes problems when finding new projects, Co Verdaas professor of area development
Given the ambitions for the construction of infrastructure and housing, this creates a major problem Leonie van der Voort Vz. Cascade
Responses from the provinces and the national government
Three of the four provinces that Cascade has written to have stated in a response to NRC that they do not recognize the problem of too few permits. According to the Limburg provincial government, the number of permits granted for sand and gravel depends on the number of applications. "That has indeed decreased in recent years." Spokespeople for the provinces of Overijssel and Gelderland add that applications that comply with the regulations "are simply issued." The province of North Brabant can understand Cascade's frustration, but it is also pointed out that there are still opportunities to combine sand extraction with a social goal such as landscape development.
None of the provinces see reasons to relax or accelerate the licensing process after Cascade's call. The Ministries of Infrastructure, Water Management and the Interior have announced that they want to enter into discussions with the companies and provinces.
Link to PDF
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Photo Chris Cologne

Load Date: November 24, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")