Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Arnhem wants a more colorful civil service workforce
The Gelderlander
April 13, 2021 Tuesday


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 480 words
Byline: ROB BERENDS
Highlight: A political riot surrounding a suppressed report on discrimination at the municipality of Arnhem got councilor Jan van Dellen into political trouble. He and his colleagues promised improvement and are now coming up with a plan to ensure that the workforce becomes much more diverse in five years.
Body


'There is also room for a white cheesehead like Jan van Dellen, man, 54 years old'
You want Arnhem society to be able to recognize itself in the civil service within five years. That is far from being the case now. Five years, that sounds ambitious.

“It certainly is. We want our workforce to reflect society. And this not only concerns non-Western immigrants, but also other groups. People of any religion, the disabled, everyone should be able to recognize themselves."

Why is that important? Does it really matter?

“We notice in some neighborhoods that it matters. We have 120 nationalities in the city and it makes a difference if you have people who can communicate well with all those people, who understand the cultures. Organizations perform better when they employ people from different cultural and ethnic backgrounds."

Twenty percent of Arnhem residents have a non-Western background. This is about 8 percent among municipal employees. You have to catch up enormously in five years. How do you do that?

“We have been working on addressing these target groups differently since 2018: with videos, via social media where we feature our own officials. That has an effect. In recent years we have seen that approximately 19 percent of new civil servants are of non-Western origin."

You appoint an official to ensure that all this works?

“There will be a diversity manager who will talk to managers. This ensures that we recruit talent and develop it further. We also want to retain people and allow them to move on to higher positions. But you will also see the board showing more that we want to become more diverse. You will see that in videos, at meetings, just pay attention."

The municipality has had few vacancies in recent years. If you want to significantly increase the percentage of non-Western immigrants, you will have to let them largely fill the vacancies. Will native Arnhem residents now have no chance?

"That's not how it works. There will be many more vacancies because more tasks will be assigned to the municipality, from the government. There will be a new Environmental Act, we need people for that. Arnhem is a sports city, 7,000 to 8,000 people work in the sports sector and our Sports Company is also growing. This is where vacancies arise and you will also see this in IT. So we get more vacancies and there are also opportunities for native Arnhem residents. But we do want a larger share of people of non-Western origin."

There are also Arnhem residents who believe that natives are being discriminated against with this policy.

“The soup is not eaten that hot. We note that it is striking that we do not have a sufficiently diverse civil service. But the municipality of Arnhem also has room for white cheeseheads like Jan van Dellen, man, 54 years old."
Retain people and let them flow

View the original page: page 3

Graphic

 
Councilor Jan van Dellen in debate about the discrimination report.

Load Date: April 12, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")