Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Insulation plan against noise pollution
The Limburger
September 30, 2016 Friday
Maastricht


Copyright 2016 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: C; Page 01
Length: 394 words
Byline: BY JOHN HOOFS
Body


Maastricht insulates hundreds of homes.
The city wants to reduce noise from cars, trains and industry. That is also a priority of Dutch environmental policy.
MAASTRICHT
Entrepreneurs on the Grote Gracht in the heart of Maastricht lobbied for years to have their street designed just like the rest of the shopping center: cobblestones with accompanying sidewalks. It all looks a bit more stylish since then. However, clinker paving instead of asphalt also caused such a significant increase in noise pollution that noise-resistant measures are required in 21 homes.
It is by no means the only place in the city where something needs to be done.
A broad action program has been devised to limit noise pollution, covering hundreds of homes. On both sides of the heavily used Tongerseweg between Vroenhoven and Tongerseplein alone, between 150 and 200 houses must have soundproofing facilities. The requested subsidy has been awarded. Implementation will start next year.
Subsidy
Eighty homes on the equally busy Hertogsingel are eligible for a subsidy to reduce decibel nuisance through measures. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment has yet to investigate whether government financing is appropriate.
The insulation project for homes along the A2 route is in the final phase. The Salvation Army building at the Geusselt intersection is the last to be visited. Moving the Noorderbrug (the project must be completed by the end of 2017) will have consequences for houses on the new route. They must be isolated before delivery.
Work started at the end of last year and the municipality expects to complete it in early 2017.
Track
On Parkweg near the Kennedy Bridge, 21 homes suffer from traffic noise. In Limmel and Nazareth, noise barriers near the railway must protect residents of 25 homes from too many decibels from passing trains. In Bosscherveld, clarity must be provided this year about the noise zone around the industrial estate and any consequences for home insulation.
The measures are the result of the disappearance of the Noise Pollution Act, which is incorporated into the new Environmental Act in which combating noise pollution has a prominent role, because noise pollution is bad for health. For example, limits have been set for noise pollution for roads, companies and other sources of noise.

Load Date: September 30, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")