Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=[Julianaweide  With the environmental law that came into effect in July...]*
The Gelderlander
February 4, 2022 Friday
Betuwe Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2
Length: 903 words
Body


Juliana meadow
With the environmental law that will come into effect in July, the Heteren Village Council hopes that projects such as Plan Julianaweide in Heteren will come to an end. An old and traditional administrative culture predominates in this process. It is no longer fashionable to get your way through by cleverly omitting certain information or shouting it out in the newspaper.

In Heteren there are many examples of projects that have been realized because we really started listening to each other instead of having a conversation with the sole aim of convincing the other person that we are right. Projects such as the Hart van Heteren, the playground on the Narcissenstraat, the redesign of the Kastanjelaan and the development of the floodplains have been realized because residents and other stakeholders put their shoulders to the wheel, the wishes of those involved are seriously examined and every obstacle is viewed from a positive perspective. and solution-oriented attitude is tackled with both hands. Just open and transparent. Then you really see how fast something can go.

Heteren Village Council finds it very unbelievable to speak of delays in the process of the Juliana Meadow. The land has been negotiated for years, it took years before the municipality's Housing Foundation was given priority for this project and the wish for the field has been known to all parties involved for many years, even well before the completion of the Bongerd in 2011 A Round Table Discussion was also organized in Overbetuwe politics in 2019, with all parties sitting at the table; also the Housing Association, local residents and the Heteren Village Council. If you then consciously choose not to develop a serious option with the desired field all this time and to put aside all proposed constructive solutions, an opinion should not come as a surprise.

We understand that a group of volunteers who work without their own interests for a lively village can sometimes be experienced as difficult. We would like to compare all village-wide visions and see where the similarities and differences lie, but the reality is that there are (yet) no village-wide integrated visions for the future. Where developers often focus mainly on their own project and the municipality does not always have the opportunity to take a pioneering role in every project due to the many tasks and responsibilities, a village development plan is extremely important so as not to be guided too much by the delusion. of the day or the political theme that is currently receiving the most attention.

What now? Our hope is based on the courage and ability of the council members to look wider than just this part of Heteren. The whole is more than the sum of its parts. The petition from involved parents of the Community School and the letter from local residents are an opportunity to find a solution together. The plan that we as a village were forced to develop ourselves has not been discussed with local residents because there was not enough time for this and we do not want to delay the plan. This conversation with local residents certainly still needs to be had. With a little optimization, all wishes can come together.

As we as a village have previously proven, we like to bring all interests together so that we can really accelerate. We would have liked to avoid an initiative role in this process because of all the other projects in the village. Nevertheless, we are in any case prepared to once again play the connecting role for this village wish.

Kelvin Derksen

Chairman of the Heteren Village Council
Juliana Meadow (2)
After reading the article (February 1, 2022) on the first page of the Betuwe edition 'Plan Julianaweide on the road' I wondered who left the door open in Heteren? Why may the Julianaweide plan be delayed and who is now at risk? All political parties in the Overbetuwe municipal council agree on at least one thing: homes must be built in Overbetuwe. Also in Heteren. No one benefits from delaying the plan.

In 2019, the PvdA Overbetuwe took the initiative to organize a Round Table Discussion with all parties involved (political parties, Heteren Housing Foundation, local residents and Heteren Village Council). It was then agreed that the wishes of the Village Council, Orange Committee, volleyball club, community school, childcare and other interest groups would be seriously taken into account in the plan. I was therefore very surprised that in the final proposal of the Heteren Housing Foundation, the activity field had been minimized and ended up in a special and unsafe location: next to the Flessestraat in a 'wadi area' (where children stand up to their ankles/knees in the water). a game of dodgeball with the risk that the ball ends up on the Flessestraat: a horror scenario). Then it is not surprising if, after many discussions, views are submitted by parties who do not recognize this plan and do not feel they are being taken seriously.

In short: who put this plan on the line? If we want to build sustainable, safe, future-proof and good houses in a liveable environment, we must ensure that no one is left out in the cold and that all parties are seriously included in the process.

Cécile de BoerCouncilor PvdA Overbetuwe

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: February 3, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")