Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The government wants to force owners to make their homes more sustainable before they rent them out
The Limburger
June 2, 2022 Thursday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: GREEN HOUSING PLANS; Page 12
Length: 611 words
Byline: Valentine Bartels And Mike Muller
Body


The government wants to make homes more sustainable with a new series of green and mandatory measures. Even private homeowners will soon be forced to better insulate their properties before they are allowed to rent out.
Minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing) acknowledges that 'major investments are needed from governments, companies and people'.
This is evident from the latest green living plans that De Jonge presented yesterday. With a large package, owners of already scarce homes are forced to make a major effort to make them more sustainable, the plans show. The CDA minister claims to make green measures affordable with all kinds of schemes. "We want to prevent people from unnecessarily incurring high costs."
The goal is to insulate 2.5 million homes by 2030. 1 million hybrid heat pumps must also be installed in existing buildings by 2030. And there will be a blending obligation for green gas. This obliges suppliers to green part of the natural gas supplied with green gas.
Moreover, the government is also involved in making private properties more sustainable, which conflicts with property rights. "To legally guarantee that all poorly insulated rental properties are improved, legal requirements will be imposed on the rental of housing association homes and private rental properties as of January 1, 2030," the plans state.
Housing Minister De Jonge announces that he will investigate in the coming months how coercion can be applied. He calls this 'norming'. “Standards for making the building stock and energy supply more sustainable can be done in various ways in building regulations. By looking at the heat demand or the standard, by a mandatory standard for renovations or by requiring certain labels with effect from a certain date. This can be done with national obligations, (area-specific) customized rules or individual customized regulations."
Infringement
According to the minister, changes are expected to be necessary to the Environmental Act, the Housing Act and the Civil Code. "Finally, when considering whether to standardize the existing built environment, the degree of infringement of property rights and the enforcement of standards are important. That is why we look at the design of standards and when this is justified in view of the public interest."
However, not all forced green measures are successful. There has recently been strong criticism of plans to make an expensive heat pump mandatory. From 2026, the hybrid heat pump will be mandatory by the government.
When replacing central heating systems, people must switch, if a home is suitable for this. The costs are between 4,500 and 6,000 euros, says the Eigen Huis Association.
De Jonge promises all kinds of subsidies, but cannot rule out that sustainability will be felt in the wallet. His plans recognize that significant sums of money are needed. "These plans require significant investments from governments, institutions, companies and people."
Solace
Loans and mortgages through the heating fund should provide relief. Just like borrowing at a 0 percent interest rate for people with low incomes and subsidies. For the minister, major investments are no reason to be cautious. “The ambition is to make sustainable housing possible for everyone. This is good for the climate, prevents high energy bills and makes us less dependent on natural gas. We do this by helping people learn how to insulate their home and by removing financial barriers. After all, a sustainable home must be affordable for everyone."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 1, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")