Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Kafra wants 96 extra beds in Labor Hotel
The Limburger
September 14, 2021 Tuesday
VenloVenray


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 353 words
Byline: Angela Janssens
Body


Housing provider Kafra Housing wants to expand the Labor Hotel for migrant workers on the Eric de Rodeweg in Sevenum. Now around four hundred foreign employees can live here temporarily. Kafra wants 96 beds added.
The municipality of Horst aan de Maas has submitted a permit application for the expansion of this large-scale facility for housing migrant workers. There is currently room for around four hundred foreign employees here. If the green light is given for an additional 96 beds, the total number will reach five hundred.
Question marks
The Horster SP faction has questioned the way in which local residents of the Labor Hotel have (not) been included in the expansion plans. There would hardly have been any environmental dialogue. According to the SP, the fact that the permit application was published during the summer holidays is also unacceptable.
The processing of the permit application has now been suspended until November 15, says responsible councilor Roy Bouten, so that Kafra can still have a good conversation with the neighbors. Bouten also reports that the municipality cannot formally enforce these types of consultations. This will only be possible in 2022 when the new Environmental Act comes into force. If Kafra wants to submit the permit now without consulting the neighbors, the municipality has no (legal) stick to use. "Nevertheless, Kafra will first organize a decent environmental dialogue," says Bouten.
Large scale
The Sevenumse Labor Hotel is the only location in Horst aan de Maas where migrant workers live on this large scale. Bouten has always said that a maximum of two large-scale facilities with a maximum of four hundred beds each will be added. The fact that Kafra is requesting a permit to expand 'Sevenum' to around five hundred beds is a fact that must be tested against the applicable rules, reports a spokesperson for the municipality. "If it meets all the conditions, we must grant the permit."
Bouten states that an expansion in Sevenum has no consequences for his search for the other two locations for large-scale housing.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 13, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")