Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=MPs do not close their doors to each other
The Limburger
May 7, 2024 Tuesday
Venlo|Venray


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: GABRIELS AND VAN EIJK; Page 7
Length: 1070 words
Body


They have a different political blood group, but were together in the council of mayor and aldermen of Weert, in the Provincial Council of Limburg, and have both been Members of the House of Representatives for six months. A double interview with Wendy van Eijk and Geert Gabriëls. "I always check to see if Wendy is there too."
Wendy van Eijk (VVD) and Geert Gabriëls (GroenLinks-PvdA) have not yet crossed swords in the House of Representatives. "And that's not going to happen," Van Eijk (51) assures right at the start of the double interview. The conversation takes place in her office on the fifth floor of the unattractive office building, where the House of Representatives is housed for as long as it lasts. The courtyard is covered in scaffolding.
The fact that the two do not face each other in the debate has nothing to do with the two MPs from Weert wanting to avoid or avoid each other. Their portfolios are just too different. While Gabriëls (44) is spokesperson for the environment, water, spatial planning and sustainable construction, Van Eijk is concerned with tax matters and sports policy. They don't see each other that often in The Hague. Yes, on Tuesdays when all MPs show up in the plenary hall for the votes. Then Geert always checks to see if Wendy is also there and vice versa. "But we don't bash each other," says Gabriëls.
Every now and then they meet each other on the train. From Weert to The Hague or vice versa. Then they can catch up and it immediately feels familiar, they say in unison. "We can be honest with each other," Gabriëls summarizes the relationship. Van Eijk talks about "the safety we feel with each other. This makes us dare to discuss things that you would not easily discuss with someone else." to hold."
They occasionally stay in a hotel, but usually travel back and forth between Weert and The Hague. Although after six months of membership in Parliament they are increasingly asking themselves how useful that is. Van Eijk says he can work fine on the train. "These are not wasted hours, but the added value of being with your partner and family is limited if you don't get home until late at night and have to leave early in the morning."
Feeding chickens
Gabriëls nods affirmatively. "For example, yesterday I didn't get home until half past twelve and had to get back on the train at a quarter past seven. I enjoyed feeding the chickens and seeing Roy (his husband, ed.), but time-wise it's not great quality time. Then he should have come here."
They have known each other for years. Initially from local politics. Gabriëls was an alderman when Van Eijk was in the municipal council. In 2018, the Brabant-born VVD member also joined the Municipal Executive in Weert. They were direct colleagues for three years, until former geography teacher and travel guide Gabriëls exchanged his alderman post for a position as deputy of the province of Limburg. After the provincial elections of March 2023, they were both also allowed to call themselves Members of Parliament for a few months before taking the oath as Members of the House of Representatives in November of the same year.
After more than six months of membership in Parliament, Gabriëls dares to announce on behalf of both of them that "we have both landed". "I found it very exciting in the beginning," he looks back, but after a few months he has already achieved reasonable in the spotlight how the Hague hares hop.
Cunning
The two have experienced that hopping also involves some cunning. “Everything is political here, even if it is not political. The order of registration in a debate, for example. What does it matter to me if I can speak second or sixth, I thought. But it turns out to make a difference," says Van Eijk. "I came in for a committee debate and colleagues were already ready. The order of entry also determines the order of speaking and whoever can speak first can speak later. also be the first to submit a motion during the two-minute debate. If it has the same meaning as the motion you wanted to submit, you have to check it," Gabriëls adds of a similar experience.
Van Eijk feels "the great challenge" of not going along with this. "I especially want to try to tackle the contents of my own files and tell my own story from there. I think that is very important. At the same time, it is difficult to maintain that in the dynamics that play here around submitting motions and requesting debates. Is this the most efficient and effective way to actually make a contribution?"
Visible
As a Member of Parliament, she hopes to contribute to a future-proof tax and benefit system. That requires a lot of thinking and writing behind the political scenes. "What principles do we as a party base on, what are our starting points, how do we want to test them? If I manage to put that dot on the horizon, I find that more valuable than that one motion or that one memorandum that only gets you a very small distance." Van Eijk also does not call himself the type who constantly throws quotes into the world. to get the media.
Gabriëls says he also dreams of setting new standards, but he also sees a role for himself in front of the screens on the way there. “That also has to do with my portfolio. If there is an environmental problem at Tata Steel, an app comes from the NOS and I have to come up with a quote. Then I can work on better rules in the background, but I will still have to respond. I don't feel any pressure in this regard, I am myself, but I also want to express the points we stand for." While as a councilor and deputy he mainly sought connections, as a Member of Parliament he also emphasizes the differences. This also includes stepping in on current events. "I like it, but it is also important to be visible."
For him, it certainly doesn't stop at that visibility, he assures Van Eijk. "I am also trying to improve the rules in the Environmental Act, so that local residents are better protected against the risks of the industry. You can't just shout at the gate how bad it is, you also have to try to do something about it. But the second is more difficult than the first."
Everything is political here, even if it is not political.
Wendy van Eijk
I like it, but it is also important to be visible.
Geert Gabriels
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 6, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")