Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Member of Parliament Veldman is not on the VVD electoral list
The Gelderlander
November 5, 2020 Thursday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 350 words
Byline: MAARTEN REITH
Highlight: Hayke Veldman will not be on the VVD electoral list for next year's House of Representatives elections. "Pity and disappointing," responds the MP (51) from Winssen. "But where one door closes, other doors open again. Something new will come my way."
Body


Party prefers others after six years
Veldman, former party leader of the VVD in the Nijmegen municipal council, came to the House of Representatives in 2014, after the departure of another VVD MP. After the elections in 2017, he was reinstalled as a Member of Parliament.

Now the party gives preference to others, he has been told. 'For me, this means that my adventure in the House of Representatives ends. Unfortunately! New people are waiting. This innovation is part of it," Veldman wrote on Twitter.

In an explanation, he indicates that he is disappointed but that he accepts it. “It is what it is,” says Veldman. "I would have liked to continue for another period after six years, but I also understand that innovation is needed and that the selection committee must find a balance in this."

He does not yet know what he will do after the House of Representatives. "I haven't thought about that yet, I am a Member of Parliament until the elections and my working weeks are still full. Especially now with the corona crisis.”

Veldman is, among other things, spokesperson for the VVD in the field of combating infectious diseases, so he has his hands full at the moment. "Socially, corona is terrible, as a Member of Parliament it is a very special period," says Veldman. "I take what I hear from entrepreneurs and companies from Maas en Waal and the Arnhem-Nijmegen region with me to The Hague. It is good to know what is going on and what support is needed. This way you can introduce this both formally and informally."

Veldman previously served as spokesperson for spatial planning, and in that capacity was allowed to intervene in the development of the new Environmental Act. This should soon make it much easier where and how construction is and is not allowed. De Winssenaar: "Thanks to a few amendments, I was able to help improve that law. I'm quite proud of that."

Veldman is also proud of an initiative law that he drew up together with GroenLinks to give nurses and caregivers a voice in decision-making about the healthcare provider's healthcare policy.

View the original page: page 3

Graphic

 
Hayke Veldman from Winssen entered the House of Representatives in 2014.

Load Date: November 4, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")