Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Room against the development of dunes
Limburgs Dagblad
January 19, 2016 Tuesday


Copyright 2016 Media Groep Limburg / Limburgs Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: A; Page 4
Length: 420 words
Byline: by Hans van Soest
Body


POLITICS The decision has already been taken, but Minister Schultz can reverse it under pressure
THE HAGUE - A majority of the House of Representatives is against the plan of Minister Melanie Schultz of Infrastructure and the Environment to relax building rules along the coast.
She will be urged in parliament on Thursday to reverse the cabinet's coastal decision.
Until now, there was a national ban on building in coastal areas outside built-up areas. But just before Christmas, the cabinet decided to lift that ban at Schultz's proposal.
Today, the Natuurmonumenten Association is presenting a petition to the House of Representatives. The more than 65,000 signatories want the coast to remain protected.
Nature organizations are afraid that the Dutch dune areas are being 'destroyed'. An inventory of the organizations shows that dozens of construction plans are already ready.
Minister Schultz previously called the fear unjustified. It is not her intention to fill the entire coast with holiday homes, she said recently. Municipalities and provinces will soon be able to decide whether construction can take place outside the built-up area, just as is already happening outside the coastal strip. And rules continue to apply to building along the coast. For example, it is not allowed in nature reserves and it is not allowed if it hinders the drifting of the sand, causing the dunes to erode.
But the ruling party PvdA and the opposition parties SP, D66, GroenLinks, ChristenUnie, SGP, Party for the Animals and 50Plus are not reassured by this. “The decision must be taken off the table,” says PvdA MP Yasemin Cegerek. “If, according to the minister, hardly anything changes, we do not need to change the rules.”
Christian Union MP Eppo Bruins: “The Dutch coast is a unique, continuous stretch of empty beach and dunes, except for a few seaside resorts. If we leave construction to municipalities, project developers will have more power. Local interests can then prevail over national ones. And our coast is too unique to run that risk.”
Although the decision has already been made, the minister can still reverse it under pressure from the House.
Schultz needs the support of the House for her so-called Environmental Act, which makes it more difficult to delay construction projects through all kinds of procedures.
Opponents hope that in order to get this law through the House of Representatives and the Senate, it will have to be compromised.
Schultz's own party, the VVD, and opposition party CDA call the discussion 'a storm in a teacup'.

Load Date: January 19, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")