Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Cutting down in a forest of rules
The Limburger
June 2, 2015 Tuesday


Copyright 2015 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: B; Page 14
Length: 572 words
Byline: by Laurens Kok
Body


CUSTOMIZED After 2018, one permit, instead of dozens for a project
Minister Schultz van Haegen will present the Environmental Act next week.
According to her, construction will be faster and better under the new law.
The renovation of her house in Leiden is almost finished. The project was quite complex.
Two buildings had to be turned into one home. She soon came across a provision that the front facade could be a maximum of 7.5 meters wide. No one could tell us why. Look, there was another rule that no one understands.
And you are making short work of that with the environmental law?
“It is much worse with larger, complex projects. In Rotterdam, Eneco is working on laying a heating pipeline over 17 kilometers from the industrial estate to the city center.
This requires thirty permanent and two hundred temporary permits! When the Environmental Act is introduced in 2018, only one permit, one project decision, will be required. Then you can speed up much more.
Why?
“We have arranged a lot in the Netherlands. There are approximately 26 laws that determine how our living environment is organized. This concerns requirements for buildings, the environment, noise, odor nuisance, you name it. The problem is that these laws sometimes overlap, but at the same time they all use different definitions and impose different requirements.
That is why we as a government have said: we are going to untangle this tangle.
We are turning it into one law, which also offers room for customization.
That sounds a bit vague. Take something like noise standards.
These are now the same everywhere, whether you want to build in the city center of Amsterdam or somewhere in the countryside. Municipalities will soon be able to make their own better assessment of how much noise is acceptable. There are more examples: does the government still have to prescribe how much lighting must be around tennis courts and how loudly those lamps must be on? Another thing: it is currently still the case that as a project developer you have to conduct soil research for archaeological heritage every two years.
If you know that something has been in the ground for five hundred years, it will still be there in two years.
With this law, aren't you mainly giving builders free rein, while nature conservationists are left behind?
“No, that's just not true. I dare even say that nature will be better off. Suppose you want to build a road, then everything must be taken into account in advance, including the consequences for nature and the environment, if there is no permit or whatever. And once the decision has been made and it is deviated from, you can simply go to court.
You do not lose legal certainty.
Is this your last major job in this term of office?
Laughing: That depends on how long the cabinet remains in office.
Your road budget has been cut significantly.
So we shouldn't expect any new plans?
"We are spending more money on infrastructure than ever, because money for later years has been brought forward.
We are creating 780 kilometers of additional asphalt. Until 2028, there is 80 billion euros for new infrastructure and maintenance. It is true that you say that there is no budget yet for further plans.
Well, that's striking. Windfalls are coming. If so, I'll definitely raise my hand. I think infrastructure, together with education and defense, are the most important goals in which a government can invest. It is good that we have contributed to the cuts, but when there is something to distribute again, money for infrastructure will be necessary.

Load Date: June 2, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")