Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Greenhouses are a threat to the Gortmeule area'
The Limburger
November 30, 2023 Thursday
Venlo|Venray


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: RISE HORTICULTURE; Page 4
Length: 357 words
Body


The plans to move the boundaries of the Veld-Austria greenhouse horticulture area towards the monumental De Gortmeule farm in Horst are encountering increasing resistance. The objectors fear irreparable damage to a piece of Horster heritage.
Thanks to the new boundaries that the municipality of Horst aan de Maas wants to lay down in a zoning plan, greenhouses can be realized up to the boundary of the De Gortmeule estate. These greenhouses pose a threat to this estate, according to the village council of Horst, the Limburg Historical and Archaeological Society (LGOG) circle Ter Horst, the foundation for the Preservation and Management of Field Chapels and Crosses in North Limburg and the Landgoed De Gortmeule foundation. in so-called views. The objectors specifically mention the Hagelkruis, a field cross from 1915, and a monumental oak, both on the border with the proposed new greenhouse area.
Historical value
The organizations are unanimous about the fact that the nationally listed farm De Gortmeule and the surrounding estate have an 'inestimable historical value' and that greenhouses are therefore not desirable in the area. "The preservation of open space around the historic farm also contributes to maintaining the rural character of our village, which is appreciated by many residents," the village council writes. There are also many rare plants, animals and bird species in the area.
To ask
The views have also led to questions from political parties. Opposition party Perspectief even proposes to reconsider the re-bordering plan.
According to councilor Eric Beurskens, that is not an option, because the process has been underway for a long time and haste is required due to the arrival of a new Environmental Act. This law will lead to different methods for recording zoning plans in the course of 2024. Beurskens says he understands the concerns of the objectors, but will only respond substantively once a so-called views report has been drawn up.
The Gortmeule and the surrounding estate have an 'invaluable historical value'
Objecting organizations
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 29, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")