Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Christmas card It is fashionable to wear the fir tree with the fri...
The Limburger
December 24, 2022 Saturday
Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: ZJWIEG MICH...; Page 8
Length: 581 words
Byline: Geertjan Claessens, Benti Banach And Jos Adriaens
Body


...is a satirical column in which the back of the news in Parkstad is viewed with a wink. And what else we noticed last week.
Christmas card
It is fashionable to decorate the pine tree with the strangest objects. Christmas cards can also be more original these days. One of the nicer specimens comes from Beekdaelen this year. There, Kerkrade artist Gady Mirtenbaum portrayed local politicians. This results in a map where the sour faces from politics have suddenly changed into cartoon characters with cheerful faces. That deserves to be followed. We are curious who you recognize. Mayor Eric Geurts is a giveaway, if only because of his chain of office.
Christmas card 2
Mirtenbaum was asked by the clerk of the merged municipality to make the portraits. But the Jerusalem-trained artist (64) has more to offer. He has been making photographs, paintings and illustrations just as lovingly for forty years. And also gives quick drawing workshops, earlier this year with people from the municipality of Sittard-Geleen. He also collaborated on more serious projects such as a graphic novel Grenzenloos about the history of Limburg, and on the book about the history of Heerlen. (GC)
Petting zoo
Simpelveld brought in an external agency to investigate the culture in the town hall, where various civil servants feel intimidated, harassed and bullied. The agency comes to the conclusion: there is no culture of fear, but there is social insecurity. It's as if pest control inspects your house and determines, well, we didn't find a wasp nest, but you do have a rat infestation. According to the councilor, it's not too bad: "Eighty percent of the employees are satisfied." That reminds us of the tour guide who, after a tough trip through the jungle, looks around and says: "I see that eighty percent of the group survived. That's a nice score. And now back to the hotel, because you must be thirsty." (BB)
In the cold
Heerlen councilor Casper Gelderblom is one of the leaders of the Association for Energy Justice. Heerlen is a leader in compensation and guidance for people suffering from energy poverty. That is twice as many in Heerlen as elsewhere in the country. It was ironic to see on Wednesday evening during the council meeting (still in the Bernardinus Chapel) that Gelderblom's own policy was the detriment of Gelderblom. Figuratively, because in a literal sense he could have used a tie. After all: the thermostat had been turned down considerably. "I don't think it's... But just a cold," said the councilor, who kept swallowing the C-word during his coughing fits.
It is cool: sitting out in the cold yourself, to set a good example. But you can still get rid of a thick scarf, right?
In the cold 2
That same evening, opposition councilor Roel Leers was able to illustrate it even better by suddenly putting on his jacket. "The energy crisis has now also reached the council chamber," he said, just as toughly. Although he (and all his colleagues and listeners) also felt the same way about it himself. Because he felt that everyone in a recent committee meeting left out in the cold - by strictly following the rules not allowing him any extra speaking time - he now spoke on every point about the Environmental Act. This made the meeting marathon extra long, and it gradually became increasingly cold. YES)
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 23, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")