Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Choose between green energy and biodiversity
The Gelderlander
July 22, 2019 Monday
Valley Edition


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 15
Length: 384 words
Byline: ERIC WIJNACKER
Highlight: There are many green ambitions for the relatively small rural area of ​​Wageningen. It is about balancing the choices between the interests of more biodiversity and generating more green energy through solar fields or wind turbines.
Body


Wind turbines are now open to discussion in Wageningen
The landscape around Wageningen is widely praised, including by professor of landscape Adriaan Geuze from Wageningen UR, says councilor Lara de Brito. "It is so beautiful here, so varied, but that does not absolve us from the obligation to also find space to produce more green energy. Above all, we must ensure that the green edge around Wageningen is preserved, preferably strengthened. We have forests, the Wageningse Eng, the floodplains and the Binnenveld. I'm not going to distinguish which area is the most valuable. It is also the combination.”

Preserving the green living environment is central to the vision for the rural area that the municipality of Wageningen will draw up in consultation with the population in the coming months. That vision must be created because of the new Environmental Act. Bureau LOS Stadomland has drawn up an extensive participation program, including workshops, internet consultation of residents and a major city conference. De Brito: "I hope that the Wageningers will surprise us again with original ideas, so that we can go through all the sessions like a kind of Alice in Wonderland. We will have to express what kind of city we are and want to be. I look forward to this process.”

Difficult choices will also have to be made, says De Brito: "We want to reverse the declining biodiversity, that must be improved.
But we also see the need and urgency to improve the climate and this requires the production of green energy. We will have to map out what we want to have where. Windmills are not, as in the previous council period, undiscussable. One windmill produces as much energy as 10 to 23 hectares of solar fields.

De Brito: "We have to make choices, also because we only have a limited territory in Wageningen. Together with the Foodvalley Region, we must indicate before the spring of 2020 where we can produce which green energy. We are definitely going for more biodiversity, but we must also think about sustainable energy supply. And the vision for our rural area must also include room for recreation and attention to preventing cut-through traffic, for example."
We only have a limited territory in Wageningen

View the original page: page 15

Load Date: July 21, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")