Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Petting zoo and water playground Tanthof is undergoing a metamorphosis: 'We will soon be open all year round'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 7, 2024 Thursday 07:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 338 words
Byline: Sandra Don
Body


It is a household name in Delft and the surrounding area: Tanthof Petting Zoo and Water Playground in Delft. A large group of people once visited this green oasis as children and now - years later - they return with their (grand)children. But the playground is being completely renovated. Remmelt Thijs, chairman of the foundation, talks about it.
Why is the playground undergoing a metamorphosis?
“The introduction of the Environmental Act at the beginning of this year is the reason. The water basin was therefore no longer permitted. That was scary, but we turned the necessity into an opportunity.”
Will more things change?
“Yes, we encountered even more 'challenges'. For example, there were few play opportunities for older children and children with disabilities. In addition, parts of the terrain quickly became boggy and therefore impassable. This is now changing with the renovated water playground.”
How are the activities progressing?
“Despite the rainy weather, we are working hard. This week was a real party, because the first four trucks full of playground equipment were delivered and installed. The shapes are now becoming clear and we can't wait until the rest is ready.”
When is the opening planned?
“The water playground season always starts on May 1. But it is still exciting whether that date will be met, it depends on the weather.”
And then it's a party?
“Yes, we want to organize a party in June. Hopefully the playground has been open for a while. What is certain is that on that day we will pay extra attention to the fact that this is an inclusive playground, where children with and without disabilities can play together. Children may have to wait a little longer before they can play again, but the improvements will allow us to remain open all year round from now on.”
Is the playground really finished?
"Well, unfortunately the finances are still insufficient for the last part of the plan: a watercourse that provides cooling and with which we can distinguish ourselves from other playgrounds. We continue to look for finance.”

Load Date: April 30, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")