Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Small construction plan good for the flow of Kesteren
The Gelderlander
September 9, 2020 Wednesday
Rivierenland Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 1
Length: 389 words
Byline: POUW YOUNGBLOOD
Highlight: Alderman Nees van Wolfswinkel of the municipality of Neder-Betuwe has a good feeling about the plan that will soon deliver six new detached homes in Kesteren. When the light finally goes green, these houses will be built on the plot on the corner of Boveneindsestraat and Spoorstraat.
Body


Alderman hopes for more homes within built-up areas
The plans are now available for inspection at the municipality. "If there are no objections, I have good hope that the sale of the houses can start in the spring. These are homes in a higher price range, but it is good for the overall flow in the municipality."

The call to build is heard everywhere, Van Wolfswinkel notes. But practice shows that it is not that easy to keep housing construction going. This also applies to the municipality of Neder-Betuwe. “It's stagnating left and right. That's why I embrace every initiative. When, as in this specific case, a private individual comes up with a well-developed plan, it is taken seriously."

The owner of the plot, who is also the owner of the adjacent transport company, has been developing the project for several years. The municipality told him that there was no room for an extra exit on the busy Spoorstraat. Van Wolfswinkel: "All traffic to and from the courtyard goes via the Boveneindsestraat."

Kesteren has been growing steadily in recent years, mainly due to the construction activities on the south side of the village in the direction of Ochten. Earlier this summer, plans were unveiled for another 160 new homes in the Casterhoven-West expansion district.

Van Wolfswinkel hopes that there will remain room for building in the various village centres. “But that is not that simple. Our municipality covers more than 62 square kilometers. Tree cultivation requires space, as do possible expansion plans for the industry. We will also have to make energy plans for solar fields in the near future."

Building within built-up areas remains a serious option for Van Wolfswinkel. “How does the neighborhood react? This will soon become an important point with the new Environmental Act. Residents must first try to arrange matters as much as possible in good consultation."

That could provide space for additional construction within the villages. Van Wolfswinkel: "I hope so. But at the same time, the municipality continues to look at greenery and play facilities, for example. This way, every future initiative is carefully assessed, just as happened on Boveneindsestraat."
I am hopeful that we will start selling the houses in the spring

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: September 8, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")