Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Small villages talk about their future
The Gelderlander
November 23, 2019 Saturday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4
Length: 295 words
Byline: KEES BACKX
Highlight: What do you do with massively empty farms and churches? Are villages waiting for an official to be labeled 'village supporter' by the municipality?
Body


These and other topics are on the table today during the national Rural Parliament in Venhorst.

After the successful European Rural Parliament in 2017, approximately two hundred representatives of Dutch small towns will now settle down on Saturday in the De Horst community center, on Sint Josephplein in Venhorst, to talk about their future.

During the biennial Rural Parliament of the National Association of Small Nucleuses (LVKK), five current themes are central today: the role of village organizations, how important are village supporters or village teams for social cohesion in the village, repurposing of vacant churches, farms and business premises, the new Environmental Act and circular agriculture.

Lectures are given on these five themes, the participants discuss and exchange experiences.

Under the leadership of Boekel's mayor Pierre Bos, the participants will go on an excursion to De Peel agricultural testing ground.

The repurposing of vacant agricultural properties is a hot topic in many small towns.

Until 2030, the LVKK expects at least 32 million square meters of farms nationwide to lose their agricultural function. Probably half will have a different interpretation.
Vacancy
The remaining 15 million square meters will become vacant, more than the vacancy in office space or retail space in 2030, the LVKK says. And then the empty churches are not taken into account for a while.

Members of Parliament Eric Ronnes (CDA), Roelof Bisschop (SGP), Rutger Schonis (D66) and William Moorlag (PvdA) will also participate in the discussions in Venhorst on Saturday.
Until 2030, at least 32 million square meters are expected to lose their agricultural function

View the original page: page 4

Load Date: November 22, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")