Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Small inaccuracies in the zoning plan for the Bladel countryside have been corrected
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 1, 2024 Friday 11:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 430 words
Byline: Patrick Wiercx
Body


BLADEL - Bladel is taking great action to correct minor sloppiness and carelessness from the past. These are components in the draft zoning plan for the countryside. It is up to the municipal council to agree to this.
The Environmental Act came into effect on January 1. This should allow municipalities to work more simply and better. "You could say that our tools are changing, but the work itself is not," said Bladel councilor Fons d'Haens. In order to work properly with the Environmental Act, the zoning plans must be correct.
More than three-quarters of Bladel's territory falls under the Outer Area zoning plan. In fact, this is everything except the built-up areas of the five centres. The Environmental Act is in line with this. Historically, there have sometimes been minor inaccuracies in a zoning plan. d'Haens gives an example. "There are locations where an agricultural company has been remediated. That's what housing comes back from. It is correct on the edges of the plot, but not on the maps.”
Archive with paper documents
Now that municipalities work digitally, these differences no longer occur. "But of course we come from a time when we had an archive of paper documents. Someone there sometimes lost something or overlooked something. Nowadays that would no longer be possible. We swept together all the things we knew and fixed them.”
Many rivers have started meandering again. To this end, the municipality works together with the Water Board. Numerous lands have changed owners as a result. “These are locations that you need to pay extra attention to. It involves many pieces of land.”
A longer-standing trend is that agricultural companies have started to focus on recreation, partly or completely. That's quite precise. Then it could happen that details were sometimes overlooked. And again: in the digital age that is no longer possible. d'Haens: "We have corrected it insofar as we found inaccuracies. Of course you still have to discover it.”
Ganzenhof
Part of the zoning plan is that new developments are included. An example of this is the Ganzenhof on the Molenweg. This concerns a recreation company with a camping site and three group accommodations. The entrepreneur wants to modernize and expand certain parts. It is mainly about improving the quality of accommodation for visitors. In return, part of the site will be converted into nature. This concerns 1.2 hectares.
The Land Committee will discuss the plan on Monday evening.

Load Date: March 1, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")