Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=With gritted teeth, Etten-Leur makes special informal care homes possible
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 6, 2024 Tuesday 02:37 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 430 words
Byline: Henk van Ingen
Body


ETTEN-LEUR - Some Etten-Leuren residents are now allowed to place an informal care home in their garden, even if they are not yet in need of assistance. The municipal council had asked for this, but wanted more flexible rules for this. Councilor René Verwijmeren will investigate this, he promised.
Residents with parents in need of care are already allowed to set up an informal care home on their property. This way they can care for Mom and Dad in their own home without constantly traveling back and forth. Leefbaar Etten-Leur, CDA and VVD also asked B and W to make a so-called pre-informal care home possible. Elderly people can then set up such a home themselves, even before they need help. The idea is that it can then be converted into a permanent informal care home when the time comes.
The council got to work and came up with a proposal stating that someone must have a medical certificate that they are suffering from an illness that will render them in need of care within three years. That hurts Leefbaar and the VVD. They think this rule is far too strict and point out that other municipalities are much more flexible with it.
They therefore argue that anyone aged 67 or older should be allowed to set up a pre-informal care home and receive a permit for ten years. The pre-informal care home can then be converted into a 'normal' informal care home. If he or she is not in need of assistance at the end of that period, the building must be demolished.
Age discrimination?
However, Alderman Verwijmeren says that the province will not approve this. “Because legally it is not possible.” The building rules have changed since January 1 due to the new Environmental Act. This means that without a medical certificate, these types of homes simply count as 'normal' housing, while informal care homes are now exempt from this.
The CDA, co-initiator of the pre-informal care home, also sees other obstacles in the way. For example, councilor Ronnie Buiks views the age limit of 67 as age discrimination and fears significant costs if the pre-informal care home is removed after ten years. Clasien de Regt (Livable Etten-Leur) points out that other municipalities have similar arrangements and does not understand why Etten-Leur is being pushed back to the province.
Verwijmeren promises to check with the province whether relaxations are possible and to ask for an explanation as to why other municipalities have received approval. He also promises that the three-year period within which a pre-informal care resident must definitively become in need of care can be extended at any time.

Load Date: February 6, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")