Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Staying the course is what the elections are all about
The Gelderlander
February 7, 2015 Saturday
Nijmegen City


Copyright 2015 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: 3_OPINION
Length: 372 words
Byline: HAYKE VELDMAN
Body


by Hayke Veldman
 Visible results have been achieved by the Gelderland provincial government over the past four years. For example, the decision-making process, which is also important for Nijmegen, regarding the final extension of the A15. The province of Gelderland was also one of the first to start working with the new instruments of the Environmental Act.
 That vision was subsequently nominated for the 'Already Simple Better Trophy 2014' award. This Gelderland vision cleverly anticipates the new Environmental Act, the law that makes spatial plans possible. Gelderland simplified the regulations at an early stage and quickly involved all relevant players.
 The Environmental Act also includes my own portfolio in the House of Representatives.
 In addition to spatial development, the province of Gelderland is also concerned with water management, regional accessibility and regional public transport. This makes it important to go to the polls on March 18 to elect a new composition of Provincial Councils and water boards. In addition, the new members of the Provincial Council will elect a new Senate in May. Every vote in the provincial elections is therefore more than just a vote for the province. This can also influence the course of national politics.
 In recent years, the cabinet of the VVD and the PvdA has taken a lot of action to make the Netherlands financially healthy again. That wasn't always fun, but it was necessary. It is necessary because the government spends substantially (18 billion per year!) more than it brings in. A family can't survive if it spends more than it brings in every month, right? The implemented policy is starting to bear fruit. The economy is growing again, companies are investing again, employment is increasing, the housing market is picking up and consumers have more to spend. We are not there yet, but we are slowly but surely climbing out of the valley.
 Now is the time to stay the course. Both in the province of Gelderland and nationally. Keep doing what is necessary. This is also important for the Nijmegen region. For economic growth, for employment: jobs for people who are now forced to stand aside. That's what March 18 is all about.

Load Date: February 7, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")