Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Coming and going of people asking for billions; Weekbook formation
NRC
May 22, 2021 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: IN THE NEWS; Page 14
Length: 704 words
Byline: Lamyae Aharouay
Body


Those who do not believe in coincidences could read a predictive message on Friday in one of the groups that were allowed to visit the informateur. Tell me who your guests are - and I'll tell you more about the formation. In the morning, Mariëtte Hamer had spoken with Tuur Elzinga from the FNV trade union and Ingrid Thijssen from the employers' organization VNO-NCW. Then it was the turn of a group of mayors and administrators. Jan van Zanen, mayor of The Hague, chairman of the Association of Dutch Municipalities and VVD member. Femke Halsema, mayor of Amsterdam, chairman of the National Consultation on Safety and Police and GroenLinks member. Ahmed Aboutaleb, mayor of Rotterdam and PvdA member. Han Polman, chairman of the Interprovincial Consultation, King's Commissioner in Zeeland and D66 member. And Sybrand Buma, mayor of Leeuwarden and CDA member. “A business cabinet,” Van Zanen joked after the conversation.
Don't ask, just drive
It was conceivable that the major cities, provinces and municipalities were represented. But what was Sybrand Buma doing there? Inquiries revealed that he actually did not know why he had been invited. He hadn't even brought it up. "I was wise enough not to ask: why do you want me to come? I thought I'd get in the car and seize that opportunity." Buma does have a suspicion. He was one of the architects of the Rutte III cabinet in 2017, of VVD, CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. Buma was party leader and negotiated on behalf of the CDA. "Now I'm on the other side. So I know the perspective of the negotiator, but also that of the practice after negotiations." What benefit does that bring him? “I know how the advice is handled. So now I'm trying to figure out the most efficient way to get my sound heard. This includes not asking why you are invited." In his new role, Buma also has advice for his successors who now have to negotiate a coalition agreement: "If you make policy, pay attention to how it will end up in the practice. For example, I now see an Environmental Act coming my way and I wonder: how are we going to pay for that?"
Hamer must have asked himself that question often this week. Her guest list was one full of people asking for billions. On Monday and Tuesday she had spoken with the eighteen faction leaders in the House of Representatives. Those conversations were about the so-called "recovery and transition policy" - the way in which the Netherlands could emerge from the corona crisis and repair the damage. And almost every party placed its own emphasis: the housing market, the labor market, the education. The word "investments" was mentioned often. Also with invitees from outside politics. Hamer spoke with representatives of young people, the cultural sector, the director of Efteling, the polder and the travel industry. In addition to the eighteen party leaders, a total of twenty-six people came along. They all asked for more investment - some more directly than others and all considered their plans urgent. Aboutaleb, putting the "few billion" that would be needed for public transport into perspective: "If you look at that amount over a period of fifteen or twenty years, it is not a lot of money."
Hamer also spoke with the party leaders about which coalition they considered most realistic. Based on the conversations with the press afterwards, it appears that the communis opinio was expressed more reluctantly by some than others: VVD, D66, CDA, GL and/or PvdA. The parties of the mayors who came by on Friday.
Hamer announced on Friday that he would like to speak with more parties in the near future, although no longer separately. She will "cluster political parties" and invite them together to discuss further the recovery policy to get out of the corona crisis. In her words: "Who makes sense to put them together to get to a deeper understanding." Some parties, she also said, do not have to count on an invitation for the time being. "They have said that they do not want to talk about recovery and transition policy."
Lamyae Aharouay
I was wise enough not to ask: why do you want me to come?
Link to PDF

Load Date: May 21, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")