Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Crusade against advance of 'block boxes'
The Limburger
January 10, 2024 Wednesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: HISTORIC VALKENBURG; Page 6
Length: 555 words
Body


It is as if the architects have used up all their creativity, sighs Thomas Brune. The young CDA member has started a crusade against the rise of boring 'block boxes' in historic Valkenburg.
H
It's nothing recent, admits Thomas Brune (28), councilor for the CDA in Valkenburg. When building the new town hall in 1964, Valkenburg sacrificed a beautiful villa from the nineteenth century for a modern 'block box': - Dersaborg house, built by former mayor Jean Georg Wehry, made way for a contemporary building by architect Theo Boosten . "Although there are still some playful elements," Brune admits.
But in recent years, the renovation of historic Valkenburg has been going very fast, he notes. After a slump in construction, partly caused by the slump in the economy, project developers have returned to action. The concrete mixers are turning everywhere. Before the construction of the same apartment complexes over and over again, Brune notes with disappointment: "In new construction projects you see one box of blocks being built after another."
Brune has listed the 'harvest' of recent years: hotel Oranje Nassau in Broekhem, the former Chinese just further down that street, hotel Trianon at the bottom of the Nieuweweg, the former garage across the street, the white villa on the Reinaldstraat behind it, the Scala Jumbo Dancing on the Plenkert. All demolished and replaced by straightforward new construction with apartments.
Valkenburg loses much of its charm in this way, says Brune, supported in this view by the rest of the CDA faction in the municipal council: "When you walk through a city, you especially enjoy the old buildings that you see around you." sees. It was the same in Valkenburg. In and around the center there were plenty of authentic villas with beautiful, almost park-like front gardens. It gave Valkenburg something of its own. But lately we've been throwing it all away." And it goes on and on, Brune notes. The new construction projects that are planned for the coming months and years do not bode well in his view. The white monastery on the Oosterweg, where until recently the general practitioners were there for a short time, will soon be demolished to make room for a new apartment complex, "Block box number so many," he fears. The Chinese on Plenkertstraat: ditto. The new building behind the police station: ditto.
It can also be done differently, Brune emphasizes. He refers to the new houses that Wonen Zuid is currently building in Broekhem-Noord: "Affordable homes with a beautiful pointed roof." And to the marl houses on Wethouder Paulssenlaan, on the east side of Valkenburg, which are not being demolished but renovated. "If such a housing association can build beautiful houses instead of uniform blocks, why shouldn't project developers be able to do that?"
Brune has pinned his hopes on the new Environmental Act, which finally came into effect on January 1. It offers municipalities the opportunity to set their own quality requirements for new construction, including in terms of design. He will soon come up with a proposal to make use of this. For example, at the new building on the site of the Stella Maris College: "It would be nice if you could see that there once was a school there."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 9, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")