Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=National and provincial politicians do not want it, but now there is a second application for the IJsselmuiden solar park
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 5, 2024 Friday 05:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 535 words
Byline: Hanne Koops
Body


While Kamper politicians are still considering whether to grant a permit for the construction of one part of a solar park on the Hagedoornweg, a second company has now submitted an application. The Groningen company Novar wants to build a solar field of 10.5 hectares. Strikingly, both provincially and nationally, politicians no longer want new solar fields on agricultural land.
The piece of land on the Hagedoornweg in the Mastenbroekerpolder, on the border with the Koekoekspolder, came into view a few years ago as a suitable location for the construction of a solar field. The Kamper council of mayor and aldermen already indicated in 2020 that they would like to cooperate 'in principle', after which three initiators were able to start making plans. Last November, the Kamper council gave the green light to RWE's application for the construction of an 11-hectare park.
Now, at the last minute of (last) year, a second permit application was submitted to the municipality. Energy company Novar wants to build a solar field of 10.5 hectares in addition to RWE's plans. In addition, the Groningen company also wants to install a battery for energy storage.
The request is striking, given recent developments in provincial and national politics. The Provincial Council of Overijssel decided in October that no new solar parks may be constructed on agricultural land. Shortly afterwards, national politics also followed. In the same month, Minister Hugo de Jonge agreed with provinces, municipalities and water boards that new solar panels will be installed on buildings as much as possible.
'Good plan'
Despite these developments, Novar still submitted an application. “This also has to do with the Environmental Act that came into effect on January 1,” says David de Jong of Novar. “Then different guidelines apply. In close consultation with those involved, we have chosen to submit the permit application at the end of December. We think there is a good project plan and that is why we have submitted the application.”
Shortly after the provincial and national decision to no longer install solar panels on agricultural land, Novar indicated at the end of October that it still saw opportunities for the field on the Hagedoornweg. "There is a chance that the permit application will not be processed. But we see opportunities for this specific project. There is a peat meadow problem at the location. Land subsidence makes the land difficult for agricultural use, and this will only get worse without measures. By combining pressure drainage with our plans we slow down the problem."
'Dubbing'
It is still highly uncertain whether a solar park will be constructed in IJsselmuiden at all. Although the Kamper council has already given the green light for RWE's plans, the municipal council last month postponed a decision on issuing a 'declaration of no reservations'. Without such a declaration, which the council can only refuse on the basis of spatial planning, the permit cannot be issued.
There is a lot of resistance to the plans for the construction of the field, both from local residents and growers from the adjacent Koekoekspolder. Partly because of this resistance, the council is still unsure about a decision.

Load Date: January 5, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")