Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Land van Cuijk should have put on the brakes with Dommelsvoort'
The Gelderlander
February 2, 2024 Friday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2
Length: 492 words
Byline: DENNIS GREIJN
Body


It would have been 'even wiser' if the municipality of Land van Cuijk itself had decided to apply the brakes, and not TopParken, the developer of the Dommelsvoort holiday park on the Kraaijenbergse Plassen between Beers and Linden.

Dennis Greijn

Cuijk

That's what Friends of the Groene Kraaij says. This interest group has been campaigning for some time against the arrival of a large-scale bungalow park along the A73 near Cuijk. She has already collected eight hundred signatures in Beers and Linden, from people who are against a mega holiday park in nature.

The foundation, which stands up for peace and nature in the lake area, created by decades of sand extraction, says it is 'pleased' to have taken note of TopParken's statement last week to postpone plans for a recreational park for the time being. with 550 holiday homes, restaurants and a marina, good for 400 berths.

"We agree with the municipality's 'sensible' qualification," said Friends of the Groene Kraaij, which includes many water sports enthusiasts who are active on the Kraaijenbergse Plassen. 'However, with one caveat: it would have been wiser if the municipality had taken this decision to reconsider and not left it up to TopParken.'

The municipality said last week that it was looking forward with interest to 'TopParken's interim step' with the development of Dommelsvoort. But now, according to councilor Maarten Jilisen, it is up to TopParken how to proceed.

Years ago, the former municipality of Cuijk released 12 million euros in preparation costs for the arrival of a large water park near Cuijk.

The introduction of the national Environmental Act last January 1 partly ensures that operator TopParken from Lunteren opts for this 'intermediate step'. Citizens will have more say in the new law. But many critical reactions from village councils, local residents and users of the lakes to the project and current market conditions also play a role in the reconsideration.

Friends of the Groene Kraaij believes that, although TopParken adjusted the plans last year from a maximum of 700 to 550 holiday homes, there is still 'a megalomaniac water park'.

The foundation suggested last year that it should work on 'real alternatives'. Other plans for the Dommelsvoort area, which 'will benefit local residents and users'. Such as the construction of sixty to seventy homes, both rental and purchase, at Beers. In addition, the N321 provincial road would have to be partly rerouted. According to the Friends, there is a need for affordable housing in times of housing shortage. And according to them, nature in Dommelsvoort itself is also being spared.
Friends of the Groene Kraaij have been campaigning for some time against the arrival of a large-scale bungalow park along the A73 near Cuijk
TopParken wants to pause its plans for a recreation park with 550 holiday homes, catering and a marina

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: February 1, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")