Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Balancing act between old and new
The Limburger
December 8, 2018 Saturday
Venray, Venlo, Roermond, Weert, Maastricht, Heuvelland, Sittard-Geleen, Heerlen, entire edition, North Limburg, Central Limburg, North/Central, South Limburg, Maastricht-Heuvelland, Mijnstreek, South/East, Central/West


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 04; Page 6
Length: 1538 words
Byline: BY JOOS PHILIPPENS
Body


 INTERVIEW URBAN PLANNING
The historic center of the provincial capital Maastricht is a 'pearl.' Preserving it requires a balancing act. Chairman Menno Homan of the aesthetics committee and councilor Vivianne Heijnen about successes and problems.
The historic center of Maastricht resembles an open-air museum.
Heijnen: “The city center is a great pearl. Other cities sometimes look in admiration at how we manage to preserve the beauty of the center."
The aesthetic committee must assess whether building plans fit within what the city wants.
Homan: "As chairman, I told the city council: choose somewhere between Venice, where nothing is allowed, and the glamor of Las Vegas."
Heijnen: “The council has adopted a strict welfare memorandum.
So he previously chose Venice. The role of prosperity is important, especially in the old city center. That should be her main focus.
However, the committee is not always involved in projects at an early stage.
Homan: “That's right. Take the Green Carpet: a motorway with noisy trucks has been replaced by a walking boulevard. A project that Maastricht is rightly very proud of. We have created a total plan for the property that the architects must adhere to. Yet we were too late. I had hoped for sustainable buildings on the Green Carpet that would still be suitable for changing functions in two hundred years' time, such as the canal belt in Amsterdam. Now the houses have probably been depreciated again after fifty years."
You will be satisfied with the new Sphinx-Zuid city center district, close to the Lumière film house and the Student Hotel.
Homan: "First a vision was created for that area: the use of materials and the light industrial atmosphere were fixed. The architects have been wonderfully able to achieve this and coordinate it."
Nowadays the architect is quite confined and has relatively little freedom of movement.
Homan: "If everyone wants to build an Eiffel Tower, you will have an architecture exhibition. Even with an area vision without icons, there are so many possibilities for variation, endless. Unity in diversity."
Those are subtleties. Don't all architects dream of grand gestures, don't they all want to become Santiago Calatrava or Francine Houben?
Homan: “That has changed. Icons are still required in training courses and people want to stand out, which is part of the times.
But there is so much more going on. Stand out by creating a sustainable building with zero on the meter, that also looks good! Fortunately, young architects are moving in that direction."
That is technically very difficult, but is it also sexy enough for ambitious architects?
Homan: "Without a guiding vision you get a cacophony."
Heijnen: “Architects come to me and complain: we have the most fantastic plans, but the design committee rejects them. How is that possible? So conversely, they would also like to consult with the welfare authorities earlier. I want to bring that closer together.
The Maastricht city center is vulnerable. Woonwarenhuis Loods 5 moves into historic Sphinx factories, which it also builds against.
Heijnen: “Those buildings were in very poor condition. Very expensive to restore them. Loods 5 was prepared to do so and the municipality sold the buildings."
Homan: “Maastricht has not looked ahead enough.
Because subsequently the Cultural Heritage department of the same municipality had a lot of criticism of the plans for Loods 5. New construction at a monument must also have a new contemporary monumentality. Especially in such an important place, where you enter a completely new part of the city."
Why do you judge negatively?
Homan: "When Loods 5 came to us, we followed Cultural Heritage's criticism of the approach to the monument. The new construction that we had to assess completely missed the mark. Even consultations and studio sessions with the architect did not help.
Warehouse 5 did not hire sufficient knowledge."
The mayor and aldermen have ignored that double negative advice.
Heijnen: “A nuance: many monumental buildings do not meet current requirements. How can you keep them for the city at a fair and reasonable amount?
Loods 5 said: we do our best in every possible way to do justice to the Sphinx buildings.
The council then, very exceptionally, deviated from those weighty recommendations. In this case, not everything is recorded in advance.
A monument expert will monitor during construction."
Homan: "I would have liked to see it differently, but fortunately this is an incident. A lot is going well."
How can you prevent such incidents?
Homan: "The municipality provides us with rules. We test against that.
Nowadays there are so many different interests, if you don't include a city vision, you will always end up with conflicting interests. If urban planning is not in order, architecture can no longer correct it."
What's the problem?
Homan: "At the beginning of the twentieth century, urban planning and architecture were separated. After the First World War, a need arose for large-scale construction for the masses.
The car arrived and they separated it from pedestrians. Everything became different. Modernism emerged and with it the planners and project developers. I am still trained in that separation.
Urban planners were literally in a different building.”
A major development.
Homan: “Yes, drastically, suddenly nothing had to look like before. If urban architect Le Corbusier thought that all homes should be square, then that was what happened. People didn't like those buildings, but they had nothing to say. Yet a year later there were pointed roofs on it. That's what people wanted. Align urban planning and architecture at an early stage. The new Environmental Act will try to do that, but it will still be quite a hassle."
The Maastricht city center must be protected, while Randwyck (the area around the academic hospital and MECC) is being overhauled. The area must become more livable and greener.
Heijnen: “Randwyck was built in the time when the car was leading, you went there purely to work. Now we want a better mix of functions such as living, working and catering, so that the area becomes much more pleasant to stay in."
Homan: “Maastricht wants to better connect Randwyck with the city.
Yet everyone will understand that you cannot create a Stokstraat district there."
It is actually a rare place in Maastricht where there is room for 'crazy things'.
Homan: “Be careful. In doing so, you are fueling a trend that goes off track more often than it goes well.
There are only a few top architects.
Below that is a large category with many good intentions.
These architects create striking buildings, but I am curious about their quality.
That will be a worrying development.
Then we end up in Las Vegas."
Take Valencia. Since it has a spectacular collection of Calatrava buildings on the outskirts of the city, it is an extremely popular destination. Maastricht can, for the more adventurous, turn Randwyck into a spectacular new neighborhood.
Heijnen: "The Calatrava campus that was to be built on Randwyck has unfortunately been destroyed. That could have created a very special dynamic. Now investors are standing at the gates of Maastricht again waiting to invest. Then it is very tempting to say: come on everyone, start building."
Homan: "Striking buildings attract tourists via cheap flights. Loose objects to attract people is a completely wrong track. I'm talking about a pleasant living and working environment."
What does the municipality think?
Heijnen: "Iconic buildings encourage others to also build high-quality buildings."
Homan: “The municipality decides.
She could also have said: 'Randwyck is like a world fair.
There should be all kinds of striking buildings and icons there.' But the municipality relies on cohesion."
Heijnen: "You have to think about: how does Randwyck connect to the Groene Loper, will it become a lively residential area? It is precisely with these types of major plans that prosperity is very important. Otherwise you will end up with a soulless area."
It's all about people feeling comfortable in an environment. But does it help if, as a member of the public, you remove striking pillars from the new Mosae Vita hospital building?
Homan: "Make no mistake. Mosae Vita in Randwyck continues to become an icon. A striking, pleasant building. It also fits in with the MECC and the rest of the square, where you can feel at home. That is quality for the long term and not boring at all."
Many people want historic buildings, replica houses from the past. How do you prevent Efteling architecture?
Homan: “A pleasant living, working and living environment is paramount.
I can imagine that in a good living environment you would place a historic building next to a modern building. Architecture comes back to spatial quality, where you look beyond individual buildings. I'm happy about that."
COMMENT? joos.philippens@delimburger.nl
 Separate eye-catching buildings to attract people is a completely wrong approach. I'm talking about a pleasant living and working environment. Menno Homan, chairman of the aesthetics committee
 Iconic buildings encourage others to also build high-quality buildings. Vivianne Heijnen, councilor
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 8, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")