Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Leudal will be working with five aldermen
The Limburger
May 24, 2018 Thursday
Weert


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 2
Length: 364 words
Byline: BY REMCO KOUMANS
Body


 NEW COALITION
HEYTHUYSEN
The new coalition in Leudal starts with five councilors. Samen Verder, Ronduit Open and D66 want to work on a different administrative culture.
A different way of meeting, consulting residents on important topics via the internet and submitting proposals to the municipal council in which alternatives are also well expressed.
In this way, the new coalition in Leudal, consisting of Samen Verder, Ronduit Open and D66, wants to renew the administrative culture in the municipality.
The three parties, which together provide five councilors, made their coalition agreement public yesterday.
The current policy will be continued on many points, such as subsidies for associations. Nevertheless, several action points are mentioned.
For example, there should be more cheap rental homes for young people, future housing construction should be distributed across all villages in the municipality and the municipality's youth worker should be allocated more hours. me ten coal v images, de me call good living d meen Arno Walraven and Piet Verlinden are nominated as aldermen for the new Municipal Executive on behalf of Samen Verder, a position they already fulfill.
The same applies to Stan Backus of Ronduit Open.
Mart Janssen, former PvdA councilor in Leudal, is the second councilor to be put forward by Ronduit Open. He must become the successor to current councilor Richard Verheul.
He left Ronduit Open when he heard that he would be passed over for a new term as alderman. Robert Martens of D66 is the intended fifth alderman in the council. “Five councilors may seem like a lot, but together it is 4.25 FTE. And given everything that is coming to the municipality, for example in the field of the Social Domain and the new Environmental Act, I can well justify this," says Michel Graef of Samen Verder. He coordinated the coalition discussions.
On Tuesday, May 29, the Leudal municipal council will meet about the coalition agreement.
Prior to the installation of the new councilors, a decision will first be made about the merger school for the centers of Haler, Hunsel, Neeritter and Ittervoort.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 24, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")