Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Leusden struggles with Raymond's illegal padel courts: 'Is it safe or not?'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 1, 2023 Friday 06:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 624 words
Byline: Steven de Groot
Body


The Leusden municipal council seems to be in a tangled mess with the 'illegal' padel courts of entrepreneur Raymond Roest. Council members do not seem to be unsympathetic to the idea, but are entrepreneurs allowed to convert their businesses at will without a permit?
Last summer, Roest decided to convert part of his fruit packaging company into two padel courts. He did this because competition and rising energy costs forced him to look for other sources of income. The problem? He thought he did not need an environmental or building permit, and therefore did not apply for one before construction.
Responsible councilor Wim Vos thinks differently about this: according to him, Roest did need an environmental and building permit. An application that was made after the track was already open was unsuccessful. The track did not pass the fire safety inspection of the Utrecht Safety Region (VRU).
Tolerated
The issue was discussed on Thursday evening in the Leusden municipal council: husband Simone Roest defended the building of the padel courts here, and stated that possible solutions are being thwarted by difficult communication from the municipality.
We also looked at what was possible here. We found that we were unable to find those options
“The VRU inspection report has not been made transparent to us. We have been deprived of the opportunity to open the padel courts in a tolerated manner due to prolonged waiting and unclear information," said Roest.
Possibilities
The entrepreneurial couple seems to be able to count on goodwill from parts of the council. Hilde van den Heuvel (Leusden Vooruit): “We have support to see what is possible.” But also: "Legally, not much seems possible around this council proposal." What a possible environmental permit comes up against is the environmental law.
According to that law, sports accommodation is not permitted in the rural area of ​​Leusden, where the company is located. “Why was it not communicated at a very early stage that it was not possible?” Tjeerd Meester (GL-PvdA) wondered. Mark van der Kooi (Christian Union-SGP): "But is it safe or not? And what about the hockey club?", referring to MHC Leusden, which is also located in the countryside.
The city council appears to be open to looking for options. I actually feel a degree of reluctance from the council
Councilor Vos responded: “We also looked at what was possible here. We found that we were unable to find those options. As far as we are concerned, padel is an activity that can easily be facilitated in the city center.”
Uncertainty
There were no real answers to the various questions on Thursday. It is clear that the municipality has been put in a difficult position by the optimistic Roest. Do they want to tolerate padel until a permit is issued, and does that send the right signal? Or should the entrepreneur be punished because, in his own words, he "got ahead of the music."
Raymond Roest himself reacted cautiously positively after the meeting: "The municipal council seems to be open to looking for possibilities. I actually feel a degree of reluctance from the council. Before the information evening I was not very positive, now a little more. But I don't dare say anything about what happens when it is voted on."
Councilor Vos has submitted a request for refusal of an environmental permit, which the council will vote on on December 14. It is still unclear what will happen if the council does not agree to the refusal.
Follow AD Amersfoortse Courant now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.

Load Date: December 1, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")