Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Enthusiasts set up the Natural Platform
The Limburger
May 15, 2023 Monday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: WEERTERLAND; Page 5
Length: 353 words
Byline: Erwin Schmidt
Body


Nature lovers, often affiliated with local organizations in the Weerterland, jointly founded the Natural Platform. The aim is to support each other and stand up for a better living environment.
The Natural Platform says it wants to become 'a movement', where everyone can use their own expertise to work together towards a more sustainable and healthier environment.
"Look how well organized the agricultural sector is, that lobby is really fantastic. But who will stand up for nature? That's a lot of loners and loose, local clubs that are not up to it at all," says nature photographer Otto Plantema from Nederweert.
About fifty residents of the region, often active as volunteers for IVN departments, bird working groups, the Groen Weert foundation or who otherwise have a connection with the environment and nature, now want to band together.
They were Jan Kluskens (working for the Limburgs Landschap foundation), Hans de Leeuw (chairman of IVN Weert) and Marieke Manders (GroenLinks) who, after a call, quickly discovered that there was a lot of interest in further contact.
After two meetings, there is already its own website and working groups have been set up. For example, a working group wants to gather legal knowledge to advise residents on how they can ensure that the government complies with its own regulations.
Together with Groen Weert, another working group wants to set up a Green Advisory Committee. The idea is that anyone who wants to start a (construction) project under the new Environmental Act can ask this committee in advance what local nature and environmental interests are involved. In this way, lengthy objection procedures can be avoided.
Yet another working group wants to focus on the question of how to create a better regional sales market for ecologically responsible products.
Work is still underway to incorporate the Natural Platform into a foundation. A formal status is necessary to be recognized as an interested party during discussions and in procedures.
Work is still underway to incorporate the Natural Platform into a foundation.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 14, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")