Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Limburg States not comfortable with Environmental Act: 'There are a lot of concerns'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 15, 2023 Friday 03:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 365 words
Byline: Editorial Limburg
Body


The Provincial Council of Limburg wants the council to evaluate the operation of the new Environmental Act every six months. According to PvdA member Lianne Schuuring, there are 'an enormous number of concerns' about the implementation of the new law.
The Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, after being postponed several times due to, among other things, IT problems. The law bundles various laws and regulations regarding, among other things, water, soil and nature. The new law should make it easier for citizens to find out which rule applies to which. It should also become easier to obtain a permit for something. Under the Environmental Act, this is possible at one digital counter.
But according to the Limburg States members, it is not yet clear whether the technology behind that counter 'will already function well enough at the beginning of 2024 to be able to handle all applications'. Partly for this reason, most parties want the Provincial Executive to monitor how the law is being implemented, 'what problems arise and what the consequences are'. The council must also examine whether it is possible to 'shape' the goals of the law, such as making the regulations more transparent and applying for permits more quickly. The Provincial Council wants to be informed about this every six months.
A motion with this request was submitted on Friday during a meeting in the governorate in Maastricht by the PvdA, also on behalf of coalition partners BBB, VVD, CDA and SP and opposition parties D66, JA21, GroenLinks, Lokaal-Limburg, Party for the Animals, 50PLUS and Horizon . These are all Limburg factions except the PVV and Forum for Democracy.
Responsible deputy Michael Theuns (CDA) said that the council is also 'very curious' how the introduction of the law will go. “We are as well prepared as possible,” Theuns said, although he also acknowledges that the province will “definitely encounter teething problems.”
Limburg is not the only province where there are concerns about the Environmental Act. For example, Overijssel is setting up a special crisis team that must solve problems that arise from January 1, the so-called first aid team (First Aid for Environmental Law Problems).

Load Date: December 15, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")