Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Lochem is fighting for more homes and against an aging population towards 2040: 'Flexible handling of rules'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 1, 2024 Friday 05:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 533 words
Byline: Niek Verhoeven
Body


It sounds a long way off, but the municipality of Lochem has set a target on the horizon for the year 2040. With an outline vision, the municipality indicates what Lochem can look like in 2040. 'An attractive, rural and green municipality.' But there is also a major challenge.
What is Lochem working towards with the city, the villages and the countryside? And what can and cannot be done, now and in 2040? For those who are interested, a first draft of an environmental vision of more than sixty pages is now available for inspection.
That vision has been years in the making. Village councils, social organizations, but also students from Staring College, among others, contributed to this. And that is not without reason. Lochem is experiencing a significant aging population. “We see that coming our way, yes. But we must try to stop it to a certain extent," says councilor Marja Eggink.
Maintain facilities
And this can be done by maintaining facilities. “Schools, but also sports facilities. And it all has to do with young people, who contribute to this. We are really going to work on that. We want young people who live elsewhere to come back here. Or that they simply continue to live here. Because it is challenging here. And we are quite conveniently located for train and car to go west."
Enough homes are needed for this. And that is precisely where the problem lies. There are fewer homes available for local residents. Especially for households with a lower income, starters and one- or two-person households. That is why there is a need for smaller, affordable and lifelong homes and new forms of housing.
The concept for the environmental vision is a mandatory part of the Environmental Act. This should make it easier and faster to apply for permits. “It has been a very long process. We already made the first steps towards this before corona. The Environmental Act was subsequently postponed. But that is now also a fact," says Eggink.
Intended for people with a plan
Lochem wants to achieve goals based on six ambitions. Lochem must be a nice place to live. "Perhaps the most beautiful and pleasant municipality in the Netherlands to live, work and recreate in," the vision states. But Lochem also wants to be enterprising, green, climate-proof, safe, healthy and (sustainably) accessible.
But who should actually bother to read through the sixty-page plan? “People with a plan,” says Eggink. Such as, for example, a family that wants to live on a property with their parents. “That people can see at an early stage what the thinking of the municipality of Lochem is. Does that fit? Yes or no? Or what do you need an environmental permit for and what not?"
The municipality wants to think along with residents. Eggink: "Initially it will be tested against the environmental plan. And if that doesn't fit, then that vision comes into play. Then it may be an initiative or a plan of which we say: it is not officially possible, but if it meets those conditions, it may fit. We want to provide tailor-made solutions to local initiatives. And that means that Lochem wants to be more flexible with the applicable rules."

Load Date: March 1, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")