Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=L'Ortye leaves Landgraaf wiser
The Limburger
May 13, 2019 Monday
Heerlen


Copyright 2019 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 352 words
Byline: BY SIEBRAND VOS
Body


 RESEARCH
LANDGRAAF
Excavation company L'Ortye stops research in Haanveld. The company will stick to its new working method: first see whether the neighborhood agrees in exchange for facilities.
The excavation project in Haanveld had already come to a standstill at the beginning of April, after B and W requested L'Ortye to stop the project prematurely.
The reason was protests from the neighborhood. In the adjacent Waubacherveld district, which had not been informed from the start, people were not reassured. Excavations are primarily a matter for the province and landowners, noted campaigner Peter Janssen-Rat.
In a two-page letter that was distributed in and around Haanveld, Jean and Vivien L'Ortye announced that they would stop here permanently. The management of the Hoensbroek family business also talks about its new working method: first talk to the neighborhood and see if your company can solve problems or install facilities here. 'By looking at the area in a different way with groups of stakeholders, in combination with the extraction of raw materials as a financial driver. To create a win-win situation'.
This method, new for excavators, was given the status of an IBA project. The IBA was unhappy that the project collapsed before L'Ortye could submit a report. L'Ortye himself noted that the support turned out to be less than they had estimated based on conversations with people on the Gravenweg. Jean L'Ortye: "We learned a lot in Landgraaf."
Jean L'Ortye says that this approach is in line with the upcoming Environmental Act.
Economic necessity also plays a role. "If we can't keep doing this, there will come a time when we have to send people home."
L'Ortye emphasizes "that over the years we have left the necessary areas more beautiful".
He saw plenty of 'opportunities' in Haanveld. Such as a small campsite, a walking route for residents of Waubach, Nieuwenhagen and Eygelshoven, a forest route with riding path, a recreational buffer pond and a nature playground as a meeting place.
Two additional speed bumps on the Gravenweg would make the road safer.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 13, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")