Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Air quality: three scenarios calculated
The Limburger
May 8, 2021 Saturday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 308 words
Byline: Pieternel Kellenaers
Body


The least ambitious scenario for improving the living environment in Nederweert only includes a national obligation to reduce particulate matter and the odor from livestock farming in the countryside may increase by a quarter. With the stricter option, odor and particulate matter (depending on the area but for all companies) decrease by 20 percent. In the third scenario, the odor from livestock farming decreases by half and particulate matter emissions must be reduced by a third at all companies. These three scenarios are calculated for the economic effects, the social effects such as unrest that may arise and the consequences for the environment such as the number of overloaded homes.
Like many municipalities, provinces and the national government, Nederweert has set out the ambition in the Clean Air Agreement (SLA) to reduce the amount of particulate matter to half of the current legal level by 2030. This would reduce the lifespan of residents by an average of four months to rise because cleaner air reduces diseases such as COPD and lung cancer. Whether this ambition, which is pursued in the third scenario, is feasible must be determined from this research. It may be that the ambition demands so much from the municipality, residents and companies that it is not yet chosen.
The calculation will take approximately four months and the costs are estimated at 75,000 euros, half of which may be subsidized by the government via the SLA. Residents of the rural area, council members and entrepreneurs can then discuss the choice of a scenario that will be recorded in the environmental vision. The measures needed to improve air quality will ultimately be recorded in an environmental plan. This plan will come into effect together with the environmental vision when the Environmental Act comes into force next year.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 7, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")