Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The supply of new-build homes is lagging behind
The Limburger
August 6, 2022 Saturday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: HOUSING MARKET; Page 57
Length: 392 words
Byline: Anp
Body


The supply of new-build homes is lagging behind the housing market and the problems appear to be increasing.
The number of new-build homes offered and sold in the first quarter of this year even fell to the level shortly after the credit crisis from 2008 to 2013. This is stated in the new Housing Market Monitor, which the Housing Value Expertise Center of TU Delft presents.
According to the report, it has not been possible to increase the number of new-build homes offered and sold since the third quarter of last year.
Lowest numbers
In the first three months of this year, the volumes were the lowest in years, at 4,500 and 5,500 units respectively.
The expectations for the near future would also not be positive. The number of new-build homes for which a building permit has been granted was approximately 15 percent lower between January and May this year than in the same period last year.
This is a known problem for some time. House prices have been rising sharply in the Netherlands for quite some time. Real estate agents, among others, have been saying for some time that more homes must be added to really calm down the housing market, which has recently shown signs of a slight cooling down. The government previously came up with ambitious construction targets for housing, but it is far from being able to meet them. According to experts, further delays in new construction production are almost inevitable.
Rising construction costs
The report states that new construction is struggling with material and personnel shortages and rising construction costs, among other things. In addition, governments seem to focus mainly on inner-city construction and there is more emphasis on more expensive apartments in the city, while many people are looking for a completely different home.
Furthermore, experts fear that the introduction of the Environmental Act in January will lead to a delay in housing construction.
The nitrogen exemption for residential construction is also in danger of being stopped by the courts. The construction industry is eagerly awaiting a ruling from the Council of State later this year on the construction exemption for the large Porthos CO2 storage project in the port of Rotterdam.
If the highest administrative court were to revoke that exemption, experts fear that more construction projects may have to be halted.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 5, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")