Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Barometer - 6.1-6.1 - 'Create clarity quickly'
The Gelderlander
March 17, 2012 Saturday
Rijk van Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2012 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: _ON_BAROMETER
Length: 1560 words
Body


RESUME
It's about confidence in the economy. Consumers currently do not have that confidence, according to the Barometer Panel. It is therefore important that that trust is restored quickly. The government has an important role in this.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Thijs Aarten: gloomy
 Unfortunately, the CPB figures from the beginning of this month on the expected budget deficit in 2013 paint a bleak picture. American developments, on the other hand, present a mixed picture: unemployment is steadily declining, but remains high and just when consumer confidence is recovering, the rise in oil prices threatens to fuel inflation. It is therefore only logical that more and more countries are trying to meet their own energy needs. In that respect, I am pleased that the new company DNV KEMA Energy & Sustainability was launched at the end of last month. We have committed ourselves to helping realize that energy transition because we believe that it is the only way.
 Iris Hendrikckx: recruiting again
 We have various ICT companies within our customer base. Most are recruiting again, sometimes cautiously and sometimes with great verve. Veenendaal is in the race as an ICT area and the various parties involved are joining forces. This will help us to overcome the crisis.
 Hanno Littink: slowly improving
 There has not been much change, things are slowly getting better. You will be financed for the purchase of real estate or a business, but you will have to bring a lot more of your own money and that can be difficult if you have not earned that much since 2008. Pricing then immediately becomes a lot more realistic. The air is out! The prices in construction require orders.
 Eline Koers: car sales
 A growth of almost 15%! Those are numbers you don't hear anymore, right? Well, it is certainly the case with the Volkswagen Group. BMW also had good news before. We should not leave such messages underexposed. In the past, car sales were also examined to determine whether private individuals have confidence in the economic market. With high sales numbers, the money is not tied up in the savings account.
 Roy Tillman: regulations
 One of the measures that this government is using to cut costs is reducing regulations. Recently, a further elaboration of the Environmental Act was agreed, with approximately 25 laws becoming 1 law. Fewer rules, fewer planning obligations and faster realization of construction projects. The EIB has calculated that if the environmental law is introduced, an acceleration of construction projects of 6 months is feasible and that approximately one and a half billion (approx. 2.4% of national construction production) could be saved.
 Jan Jonker: care
 Despite the crisis, healthcare costs are growing. The pressure to structurally reduce costs is also increasing, but legislation and regulations limit the playing field for politicians. If you want to speed up, pay attention to 3 things: 1. ensure that the new idea makes an old method redundant. 2. Take the existing reimbursement structure into account. 3. Actively involve both healthcare provider and patient in the development of your innovation.
 Bart van Meer: cutbacks
 The report from the Central Planning Bureau shows that in 2013 there will be a government deficit of 4.5% of the Gross National Product. Cutbacks are written in capital letters. It is clear that the cutbacks have a direct impact on the business climate. Less government spending leads to fewer orders.
 Jan Blokland: lively question
 Uncertainty everywhere within Dutch cold stores. January of this year developed promisingly, especially for meat and meat products. Demand has decreased from the beginning of February. There are a number of reasons for this. The export of meat and meat products to China is moderate. This is an annually recurring image. Due to the extra supplies that are built up in China every year during the New Year celebrations, demand lags behind in January and February. The unstable euro causes problems for international trade when importing goods.
 Ed Velthuis: explosion
 Software delivers 25 billion GNP across the Netherlands. A further explosion is possible if we use our knowledge to use the technology even more in consumer products. Faster, better, convenience and above all efficiency for more time and clean growth. A start for better barometer readings through excellent ICT.
 Starting the discussion about mortgage interest deduction in a world and euro recession appears to be playing with fire. With 600 (billion) mortgage debt, but also 800 in pension funds and at least another 1,000 in home value, the private balance sheet is positive.
 Annemarie Scholtis: sacred houses
 The CBP has predicted a budget deficit of 4.5% for 2012. This is more than 1.8% higher than stated in the coalition agreement, but more importantly 1.5% above the European agreement. It is essential for the Dutch position within the European Union that it adheres to this agreement. It's time for the sacred cows discussion. Credible and structural reforms are needed to restore government balance in the long term and consumer confidence in the short term. Clarity can encourage Dutch consumers to spend again.
 Esther-Mirjam Sent: Catshuis
 The gentlemen and lady non-economists in the Catshuis are considering cutback options. What they forget is that the government budget is a means and not an end. Cutbacks are unwise in a fragile economy. It is better to focus on reforms, with political pain now and economic pain in the future. That restores confidence.
 Penning de Vries: smart
 NXP continues to invest a lot of energy in innovation. It is therefore not surprising that NXP's technology was again in the spotlight in the past month. For example, at the Embedded World high-tech fair in Nuremberg we presented the smart washing machine that can be operated with a Smartphone and is equipped with numerous functions, including a fabric recognizer! Almost simultaneously, we demonstrated the latest developments in the field of NFC (Near Field Communication) at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. This wireless communication technology makes all kinds of services possible. Finally, I would like to mention a special initiative by NXP. NXP and Eindhoven University of Technology (TU/e) announced at the beginning of March that they would make 7 scholarships available to Electrical Engineering students. The Netherlands will have a great need for more technically highly educated young people in the coming years. With this step we take our responsibility.
 Ronald Migo: Germany
 The discussion about the interpretation of the recent CPB figures has kept people busy. The forecasts are gloomy and new major cuts seem inevitable. Fortunately, in addition to our gloomy figures, there are also those of Germany to report. The German economy is doing well. Also look at excellent examples such as the purchase of bol.com by Ahold.
 Ahold makes a profit and ensures a mega expansion of the range and diversity in terms of distribution points (online and offline). This expresses confidence in the current management.
 Hein van der Pasch: balance
 The growth can exceed 5. This requires more balance when making cuts. The plans have not provided much stimulus for the economy in recent times. For example, education for children with disabilities who need extra care is being cut. If a major intervention were to cap the deductibility of mortgage interest for higher mortgages and incomes, this would also mean a cut of billions, with contributions from everyone according to their ability. SME leader Biesheuvel understood the need for balance and support when he proposed also using the zero line for top incomes.
 Henk Berg: trust
 What do you mean trust? The Dow Jones is almost 1,000 points higher than at the end of 2007, just before the economic crisis. Despite the uncertainty, the real economy continues to operate steadily and overall it is growing enormously. However, the same real economy is changing very quickly under the influence of high-tech developments. Productivity is achieved in a different way and companies must do everything they can to respond to this. Only the government system and, by extension, the highly regulated banking sector cannot keep up with this pace. The government then responds with even more delaying regulations, which we as companies experience every day.
 Company name
 Roy Tillman Chemical building materials 6.6 - 6.8
 Henk Berg KPMG 6.5 - 6.5
 Ronald Migo Chamber of Commerce 6.3 - 6.5
 Annemarie Scholtis Rabobank 5.0 - 5.0
 Theo Lemmen Ondernemerscafé 6.4 - 6.4
 Jan Blokland Cold Stores 6.5 - 5.5
 Thijs Aarten DNV KEMA E & S 6.5 - 6.3
 Hein van der Pasch Mercator Incubator 5.0 - 5.0
 Jan Jonker Health Valley 6.5 - 6.5
 Ed Velthuis VNO-NCW 5.0 - 5.0
 Hanno Littink Bax Advocaten 6.5 - 7.0
 Esther-Mirjam Sent Radboud University 5.0 - 5.0
 Iris Hendrickx Quiris Adviesgroep bv 7.5 - 7.5 Eline Koers Weeghel Doppenberg Kamps 7.0 - 7.0
 Bart van Meer CMS Derks Star Busmann 4.5 - 4.5 René Penning de Vries NXP 6.8 - 7.0

Graphic

 
Ed Velthuis: 'The private balance sheet is positive'.

Load Date: March 17, 2012, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")