Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Maashorst continues with construction plans in Uden, Volkel, Schaijk and Zeeland: together 336 homes
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 29, 2023 Wednesday 10:15 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 608 words
Byline: Hans van Alebeek
Body


UDEN - The municipality of Maashorst will continue with a large number of construction plans in almost all centers in the near future. All together this concerns 336 houses and apartments in Uden, Volkel, Zeeland and Schaijk.
Most plans have been in the pipeline for much longer, but will quickly be put into procedure with the new Environmental Act, which comes into effect on January 1. The environmental plans are now available for inspection so that residents can still object to them. If that happens, the construction plans will certainly be delayed. If not, construction could start left and right within the next year.
Build according to need
In Zeeland, this concerns two hundred homes in the Repelakker III expansion plan. Actually, that would be four hundred, but the province requires Maashorst to 'build according to need' and it may only be half. The plan includes various types of housing, of which approximately 60 percent is in the 'affordable' category and a quarter is social rental.
The municipality is still in consultation with the neighborhood about how traffic will be handled. Residents of the already completed part of Repelakker are particularly afraid of extra crowds and cut-through traffic if the district is expanded. “But we will get through this together,” says a hopeful councilor Franko van Lankvelt. The plan will be available for inspection from December 7.
Text continues below the photo.
In Schaijk, the Akkerwinde plan is being completed. The third phase of this construction plan involves 97 homes, here too a varied package of house types and prices. Of the new homes, 30 percent are social rentals and 40 percent are cheap rental and purchase. A small park will soon form a green buffer between the new residential area and the neighboring business park.
New access road
It has been agreed with the builders that the green zone will first be constructed before housing construction starts. In contrast to Zeeland, traffic management has already been arranged here: there will be a new access road on the north side that connects to the Pastoor van Winkelstraat. That road will not be connected to Akkerwinde I and II, which will prevent additional traffic through those neighborhoods, according to the municipality.
In Volkel, the long-awaited and much-discussed construction plan for the zoo is finally getting off the ground. Area 22 will build social housing for the elderly here: eighteen apartments and four ground-level houses. The municipality and the area have made agreements to guarantee that the houses actually go to the target group of seniors. The municipality is still looking at where a new (smaller) animal park can be located in Volkel.
Text continues to read below the photo. And what about Reek?
And Reek Builds?
Finally, seventeen homes will be added at the roundabout in the Bitswijk Uden: a complex with twelve apartments and five ground-level homes. This is a long vacant site where houses for starters, the elderly and smaller households should be built. However, the zoning plan must be adjusted for this.
Councilor Franko van Lankvelt is pleased with all the homes in the pipeline. “Because you also have to take into account that this will trigger new relocations.” So a multitude of residents are being helped, he wants to say.
Van Lankvelt acknowledges that Reek will have to wait the longest for now. “I understand the sounds of Reek Bouwt!”, he says to the association in formation. “We will enter into discussions with these people.” The most concrete construction plan for Reek is for the time being the expansion on the grounds of the tennis club and Young Netherlands, but that will take some time because it depends on the realization of the Sports & Games plan.

Load Date: November 29, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")