Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Maastricht churchgoer has to travel
The Limburger
August 3, 2021 Tuesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5, 4
Length: 918 words
Byline: Joos Philippens
Body


Transporting believers to a church down the road, that is the inevitable future. The Maastricht and Meerssen deanery is already looking for new users for redundant churches. Episode 1 of a series about the future of faith in Maastricht and the Heuvelland.
After the Second World War, Maastricht built up so-called parish districts at a breathtaking pace, until the city had forty churches. Shortly afterwards, secularization took effect.
The harsh reality of 2021: in twenty years, the majority of current churchgoers will no longer be there. "We must maintain the basic message, charity,," says deanal director Ruud Schoufs. "By divesting church buildings, the Catholic religious communities can be preserved."
The diocese wants to move towards larger associations. Dean John Dautzenberg is in favor of working from the bottom up. "As a child, in Kerkrade I experienced that two parishes had to move to one church. In 2021, there are still two choirs that barely work together."
Cooperation in Maastricht is also often difficult. Dean's director Ed van Berlo: "Logically you say: there will no longer be a dog in that church, so no one will pay for its upkeep. Then it stops. Yet it leads to major conflicts."
It is a matter of maturing the spirits. And above all: habituation. Van Berlo: “The dean has the immense task of keeping those emotions in check. People are used to a church within walking distance. Believers will soon be transported to a church miles away."
In recent decades, three churches have been demolished in Maastricht. Six churches have been given a new destination, such as the Dominicanen Bookstore. "That went fairly quietly, but the time for silence is over."
Resists
There remain 21 churches in Maastricht and 9 in the municipality of Meerssen. Opposition to closure comes mainly from people in their 80s. "Should you keep that group satisfied or look at the new generation?" Dautzenberg: "You have to dare. The new generation will take the situation as it is."
A clear deanal vision is crucial, otherwise everyone will just shout, says Schoufs: "If people see that intervention is inevitable, they join in."
That plan is now in place. "The new Environmental Act looks at the entire city integrally, and you must also view the churches in that perspective," says Schoufs. "Then the buildings are no longer exclusive to the diocese, but concern all citizens." The government provides subsidies to Maastricht and Meerssen, each of which is drawing up a church vision. But what to do with all those church buildings that are to be disposed of? "What creates bond without being offensive?" says Dautzenberg. "A gambling hall is taboo, even more so than demolition." The dean is not happy with fitness centers in churches. "I try to take into account the people who prayed there. I buy books in the Dominican Church, but the coffee bar is now where the altar was..."
Successful examples
Many Christian groups are looking for a place of worship. The Baptists, the Reformed Liberated, the Protestant Church, the Walloon Church, Pentecostal Church. The deanery talks to all these groups.
There are successful examples. The Armenians have already taken over a church in Pottenberg, for a symbolic amount, but the deanery has lost its maintenance.
Or take the Eritreans. "They are dressed in white robes, but carry the same staff as Saint Servatius," says Dautzenberg. "All churches with the same basis, from before the diaspora. It is all sensitive, you have to guide people to ensure that other Christians will soon come into our churches.”
There are neighborhoods where many Muslims live, while the Catholic church is empty. Dautzenberg: "Islam has the same origins as Christianity. Of course you don't sell to Salafists and you have to look very carefully at the local situation. Where does something like this fit and where not?"
There are numerous considerations. "The South Netherlands Philharmonic goes to the Theresia Church; A little further on you have the large, modern Anna Church, which lends itself very well to other uses. Or the Groene Loper, where many new people come to live. We have the Church of Our Lady of Wittevrouwenveld, but five hundred meters further away is the Koepelkerk, a kind of museum for contemporary art. What should we do with that?"
Catholics often attach importance to historic buildings. "While they are the most expensive to maintain and are not always the best attended," says Dautzenberg. Support is crucial, but so is the role of the pastor. "He often wants to remain his own boss, decide about the money, but also out of concern about a lack of follow-up." A pastor can postpone an agreement between parishes for a long time. If he does not want to leave, he is very strong in terms of church law. As far as Dautzenberg is concerned, priests retire as church administrators at age 68. They may then concentrate fully on the salvation of their souls, as wise confessors.
Dautzenberg (57) has a vision for ten years from now. "The guest presses a button 'rk in Maastricht' and sees an overview of spiritual places with what to do. All churches have been given a good, acceptable destination, sometimes shared. Retired priests enjoy a nice old age in their own environment, they no longer languish like a rankless citizen in a soulless apartment."
Demolished
In recent decades, three churches have been demolished in Maastricht.
Destination
Six Maastricht churches have been given a new purpose.
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 18, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")