Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Malberg can now only go to court
The Limburger
October 23, 2023 Monday
Maastricht


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: PROBLEM TENANTS; Page 4
Length: 439 words
Body


The placement of eight temporary tiny houses for mostly addicted problem tenants in the Malberg district will continue, the Maastricht city council has decided. This angered concerned local residents.
Initially, 81 households objected to the Skaeve Huse project, for persistent nuisance perpetrators on the Toustruwe, on the former site of the SCM football club. The vast majority of the objections were immediately declared inadmissible. More than twenty local residents challenged this during a hearing in August. After receiving the official advice based on this, B and W have now decided to stand their ground.
Local residents can appeal to the court within six weeks. But the municipality does not have to wait for the administrative judge's ruling. Only summary proceedings can stop placement; entrepreneur Jeroen Vandooren will therefore in principle apply for a provisional injunction. Vandooren, who is also litigating on behalf of the immediate neighbor of the tiny houses, is certain: "So far it has been a matter of 'We at WC-duck think we have made a good decision'. Not so. The judge seems to be the only independent party we have left."
The city council is upholding the decision to grant the environmental permit, "subject to further motivation and further regulations." This mainly concerns safety. For example, in the first three months after the start of occupancy, an integrated safety meeting must be held every two weeks. take place, a spokeswoman said. Nuisance reports must be properly registered and included in that consultation. It must also be indicated how the reports have been handled." The sounding board group provides feedback to the neighborhood. Local resident Nic Pepels states that the municipality has not acted in the spirit of the new Environmental Act in terms of participation and even contrary to the Constitution. The council does not agree with this, says a spokeswoman: "Despite the fact that the Environmental Act is not yet in force, we have acted in the spirit of this law. The rules of the Wabo/Awb currently apply: these have also been observed. Furthermore, participation - discussing in a sounding board group - is in the spirit of the Environmental Act."
The objectors maintain that there has been no substantive participation and that the neighborhood is having houses shoved down the throats of nuisance perpetrators. The municipality would hide behind spatial planning rules, although it concerns feelings of insecurity. The neighborhood would prefer to see homes for families here.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 22, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")