Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Market for cavity wall insulation collapsed due to bat, industry comes up with surprising solution
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 29, 2024 Monday 07:13 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 583 words
Byline: Edwin Timmer
Body


Protect bats while continuing to insulate houses at a rapid pace. According to the insulation sector and the Dutch Sustainable Energy Association (NVDE), this is possible with a new way of bat detection based on DNA material floating in the air.
The winged mammals leave minuscule genetic material in the atmosphere of cavity walls in which they live. Researchers are now able to read from air samples whether bats are present and even which species they are. The bats are not disturbed and the presence of other animals such as birds and salamanders can also be detected.
"If the Ministry of the Interior approves this new detection method, we can continue to insulate cavity walls much faster," says NVDE chairman Olof van der Gaag. There is a great need for this in the insulation sector. “Since a ruling by the Council of State last year, the market for cavity wall insulation has collapsed by two-thirds,” says Van der Gaag.
Camera insufficient
In August 2023, the highest administrative court put an end to the old method of determining by camera whether there are bats in walls. Small bat species are easy to miss and existing pipes could obstruct the view. According to the judges, the method therefore does not meet the so-called duty of care under the Environmental Act.
As a temporary measure, it is now mandatory that an ecologist determine whether flying mammals are present before a cavity wall can be insulated. In addition, insulation companies must adhere to a natural calendar, i.e. they are not allowed to work during the maternity period (April to July) and during the winter months (December to February).
That broken working year is bad news for achieving the climate goals for 2030 and a dampener for households that want to reduce their gas consumption, according to the NVDE. Initially, the insulation sector expected to be able to insulate the cavity walls of 550,000 houses by 2030. Under current circumstances, there is a risk of only 200,000.
With the new method based on DNA detection, this could soon be almost 340,000. “We could then work year-round again,” explains Van der Gaag. The NVDE and the Association of Approved Post-Insulation Companies (Venin Isolerend Nederland) therefore request the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations for scientific approval of the new technology.
Mammal association happy
The Mammal Society is pleased that new ways are being sought to spare the protected animal species from isolation. Petra Verburg, leader of the bat team, emphasizes that the innovative method must first be tested and approved. “Only then can this be applied on a large scale.”
According to insulation companies, haste is required. They are afraid that expert staff will be forced to leave the sector if there is no work available all year round. "If we are not careful, we will continue to suffer from this for years to come," says Piet-Jan Dijkstra, chairman of Venin Isolerend Nederland.
Outgoing Minister Hugo de Jonge (BZK) is in consultation with the sector and understands the importance of smooth insulation, a spokesperson emphasizes. At the same time, a study will first have to show whether the new method works and meets all safety requirements for protected animal species. "I do not expect the results before the second half of the year," the spokesperson said.

Load Date: April 30, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")