Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Thinking along with builders
The Gelderlander
June 25, 2016 Saturday
Nijmegen


Copyright 2016 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 6, 7
Length: 443 words
Byline: ERIC REIJNEN RUTTEN
Body


Criticism of the aesthetics committee shared by many
Anyone who submits a building application to the municipality of Nijmegen should get the feeling that they are being taken into account. "If people encounter an arrogant attitude, we have to do something about it," says director Gérard Bouman of the Nijmegen Region Environmental Service.
His department provides the secretary to the committee and uses the advice to assess building applications.
Bouman responds to the criticism expressed this week in De Gelderlander by real estate magnate Ton Hendriks. And that generated a storm of responses from people with similar experiences as the investor.
Hendriks' criticism is mainly aimed at the image quality committee (formerly the aesthetics committee), which, according to him, pursues an 'anti-policy'. The demands placed on construction are holding back the city's progress, he says. He sometimes has to 'talk about trivialities like a beggar'. For example, he restored buildings on the Oranjesingel (Hotel Blue) to their former glory, but he has conflicts about this with the environmental department.
Hendriks' criticism is widely shared, as is evident from the responses. Many people mention the arrogant attitude of the image quality committee. "But we don't want to be an obstacle," says Bouman. "If you as a city find it important that the environment in which people live is beautiful, you should have building applications assessed by people with expertise. But this must be done in close consultation."
And that's where things often go wrong, thinks secretary Bas ter Steege of the image quality committee. "People can actually have a design made before they consult with us. Then we can say what is and is not possible, which saves a lot of frustration."
He cites hotel-restaurant Oortjeshekken as an example. "They want to move the kitchen there. The first idea was different from the result. But something has now emerged with much more respect for the existing building, and everyone is much more satisfied with it."
According to Ter Steege, the problem with Hendriks is not so much the preliminary consultation. "But the final image often looks slightly different than what is stipulated in the permit. Then suddenly a window is plastered shut. And then you have to find a solution for that."
According to Bouman, opportunities for improving the working method must always be examined. "I cannot and do not want to change the considerations of the image quality committee. But we can look at how it can be done more efficiently and where it should be more customer-friendly. As an environmental service, we are consciously working on this, also because we are preparing for the arrival of the new Environmental Act. More than just reducing rules, it's all about conducting dialogue."

Graphic

 
The buildings on the Oranjesingel (Hotel Blue) have been renovated, but there is trouble with the image quality committee. photo Bert Beelen

Load Date: June 25, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")