Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Participate in discussions about your own 'passport'
The Gelderlander
September 25, 2018 Tuesday


Copyright 2018 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 273 words
Highlight: In the coming weeks, residents of the villages of West Maas and Waal will participate in discussions about the so-called village passports of their place of residence.
Body


The first meeting will be held next Tuesday in the Leisure Center in Wamel, after which eight more consultation moments are planned until October 17.

The village passports form the elaboration per village of the West Maas and Waal Village Quality Plan. This describes the character of villages and which spatial qualities they should preferably preserve. The plan also contains a step-by-step plan for people or companies developing plans in the villages. They can immediately see on a map whether their plan still has to comply with special 'rules of the game', for example because the site is part of a cultural-historically valuable ensemble.

The quality plan and passport replace the aesthetic note that the Spatial Quality Committee now uses to advise the municipality on whether or not to grant a permit. "It is still very much about exact rules about what is not allowed," says responsible councilor Sander Bos. "This plan is an invitation to come up with great plans and immediately offers a readable 'toolbox'."
Tips
For example, per type of neighborhood (for example per construction period and function, such as business, residential or houseboats) it is described how changes should preferably be dealt with matters such as greenery, choice of materials and appearance of the area. "Soon, when the new Environmental Act comes into effect, it will become increasingly important whether a change has support in the area, rather than whether it complies with exact rules," says Bos. "A village quality plan therefore also provides tips about communication, for example."

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: September 24, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")