Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=More noise in the neighborhood, how bad is that?
The Gelderlander
April 16, 2024 Tuesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 4
Length: 359 words
Byline: PIET VENHUIZEN
Body


Duiven likes to build. But the Plakse Weide, Ploen-Noord and Biezenkampen construction sites are close to busy roads. That is why the municipality wants to allow much more noise pollution than the standard value of 53 decibels stated in the Environmental Act: 68 for the Plakse Weide, 70 for the other sites. Is that healthy?
How many decibels of traffic noise causes health damage?
53 decibels is equivalent to the sound of a coffee maker. At 45 decibels at night, 3 percent suffer from serious sleep disturbance. Every additional 3 decibels doubles the noise. A noise level of 68 decibels, as proposed in Duiven, is 32 times higher than 53 decibels.

According to the GGD health service, the possible consequences are sleep disturbance, stress and cardiovascular disease. Sound affects the body and mind in a direct way, but also indirectly, if someone judges the sound as undesirable. Long-term exposure can cause cardiovascular disease due to stress reactions. The National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) has calculated that road traffic noise causes cardiovascular disease in 750 people every year. About 65 people die from it every year. The GGD is an advisor to municipalities and also makes suggestions for measures to reduce the consequences of nuisance. For example, Duiven wants to install an earth wall with noise barriers between the Oostsingel and the new Plakse Weide district, and also wants to do this along the most northeastern part of the Vergertlaan. But other measures (quiet road surface, ripples along the road or a noise barrier along other roads) are too expensive, according to the municipality.
Why can Duiven allow a higher noise load?
The Environmental Act that came into effect on January 1 sets the maximum noise load on homes at 70 decibels. This level is acceptable in busy areas and when mitigation measures are not an option. Duiven wants to (partly) go up to this maximum for new neighborhoods. This is far above the GGD standard. The GGD is therefore only an advisor and cannot prescribe anything to the municipality. It is up to the municipality how it takes advice from the GGD into account.

View the original page: page 4

Load Date: April 15, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")