Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='More participation can even widen the gap in Wageningen'
The Gelderlander
September 8, 2018 Saturday
Valley Edition


Copyright 2018 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4
Length: 292 words
Byline: ERIC WIJNACKER
Highlight: Good times are coming for involved Wageningers who would like to participate in discussions about spatial developments in their municipality.
Body


Wageningen wants to organize the new Environmental Act in such a way that citizens can participate as fully as possible.

The pitfall: not every Wageninger has the time, inclination or the opportunity to participate in the discussion. And that can deepen the divide in Wageningen society.

GroenLinks councilor Lara de Brito sees many opportunities that the new Environmental Act will offer to get Wageningers involved in discussions about houses, greenery and traffic. But in Wageningen in particular, De Brito agrees when asked, there is a danger that only highly educated residents or active organizations such as Mooi Wageningen want to fully participate in this discussion and decision-making.

While the Wageningers who go to the polls once every four years and believe that their representatives should determine policy, are perhaps less heard.

De Brito: "I know that and realize that there is certainly a deep pitfall in Wageningen. In the social domain, I think we have succeeded in getting Wageningers from broad layers of society to participate in the discussion. And it is very important that this also works with the Environmental Act. This new approach certainly does not absolve us of the obligation to ensure this.”

She presented the Wageningen environmental law project plan on Thursday: "We can organize everything in such a way that Wageningers can participate in much more decision-making for themselves. We can therefore choose an even more Wageningen approach, aimed at our residents. That suits our sometimes somewhat headstrong city. I of course hope that sustainability and greenery will receive a heavier emphasis."

De Brito thinks that the Environmental Act, which will be introduced nationally from 2021, will have a huge impact. "It concerns the bundling of 22 laws and there appear to be about 10,000 rules in this field."

View the original page: page 4

Load Date: September 7, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")