Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=More influence for advice
The Gelderlander
April 27, 2018 Friday


Copyright 2018 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 1
Length: 381 words
Byline: PETER DEURLOO
Highlight: The Druten municipal council will have more to offer in the next four years. Informant Gerard Worm of Kernachtig Druten (the largest party) wants to achieve this by introducing a so-called council agenda.
Body


The Druten municipal council introduces a so-called council agenda
The future coalition partners Kernachtig Druten (K8D) and the cooperating village lists (SD) will not make 'closed agreements' in the council program on certain topics. For the time being, it concerns 'living and building until 2022' and the approach to public space. The council will first jointly determine a direction on these topics. After that, it is only the mayor and aldermen's turn.

The parties also felt they had a place on the council agenda for the topics 'tourism in the Afferdense and Deestse Waarden' and the new Environmental Act. But according to Worm, the first topic is not sufficiently political to be included in the agenda and the introduction of the Environmental Act is constantly being postponed. That is why they do not (yet) end up on the council agenda.

As of today, K8D and the SD will create a lecture program and consider who will become an alderman. The other parties are offside. Worm reports that a 'grand coalition' could have been formed if you look at the election manifestos.

But the information interviews revealed that there were a number of difficult topics: sustainability, center vision, approach to the half-empty Westerhout-Zuid industrial estate and the official merger with Wijchen and the possible reorganization. K8D and the SD get along well on these topics and, according to Worm, the other parties have different ideas.

The intended coalition has 12 of the 17 seats. The cooperating village lists form a block of four parties: Village List Deest, Village List Afferden, Village List Horssen and Village List Puiflijk/Druten-Zuid, together accounting for 7 seats. K8D obtained 5 seats.

The introduction of the council agenda can lead to a more open atmosphere in the municipal council. This was not there during the last council period. All parties, except for Sociaal Maas en Waal (SMW), were in the council and there was hardly any debate in the council chamber. SMW's proposals were dismissed. With the council agenda and three opposition parties - SMW, CDA and Welzijn Druten - the current council period promises a more lively debate and less closed politics.
Introduction of the council agenda promises a more lively debate and less closed politics

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: April 26, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")