Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Meerssen should not cut corners'
The Limburger
July 6, 2019 Saturday
Maastricht


Copyright 2019 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 395 words
Byline: BY JEROEN GEERTS
Body


 SHORTAGE
MEERSSEN
Cutting more than one million is already a tough one. But Meerssen will have to get rid of almost two of them in a few years. The councilor does not yet know how.
“I can close all community centers and close down all associations.
But then we will destroy Meerssen society."
Responsible councilor Jan Gulikers realizes that the municipality will be confronted with too big a task in the coming years. "With these figures, it becomes mission impossible to come up with a multi-year balanced budget."
Just like in so many comparable municipalities, a million-dollar deficit looms for Meerssen next year. Finding cover for that will be quite a challenge.
But in subsequent years the deficit may rise to almost two million. Gulikers intends to sit down with the deputy to discuss the situation. "I will ask him what the consequences are if our budget is not balanced for several years." Meerssen was already under a financial magnifying glass at the province. On the other hand, Meerssen is not the only one facing a mega task. Youth care, energy transition, Environmental Act; it is largely the decentralizations that have caused problems for small and medium-sized municipalities. “Do more, but not more money,” is how Agnes Jonkhout (CDA) puts it. Several municipalities suggest that the dire situation should be raised with the government. With a bit of cynicism: "It seems that municipalities of our size are forced to move towards bigger brothers."
Reduce the costs of the communal schemes, suspend particulate matter measurements at Maastricht Aachen Airport, simplify the energy transition, and cut even more on municipal accommodations.
The council does have some ideas about where some coverage can be found. During the council meeting this week, the opposition naturally started talking about the property tax that the current council was tempering 'to appease the voter'. But Gulikers creates perspective: "That measure has 'only' brought in 180,000 euros less in cash." So a drop in the ocean when it comes to two million.
And that also applies to most of the other options mentioned. A barrel here, a barrel there. After the summer recess, it will have to become clear how Meerssen plans to survive in the coming years.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: July 6, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")