Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=More homes, safer villages and security of existence: these are the wishes of the Halderberg municipal council
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 10, 2023 Friday 07:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 495 words
Byline: Inge Jacobs
Body


OUDENBOSCH - More boas or youth workers, building homes for all incomes and listening better to residents. The local factions in Halderberge put their wishes on the table on Thursday evening.
Halderberge is not doing that crazy, the VVD faction starts with the General Considerations. But it can always be better. For example, care must be “closer to home, more digital, with a focus on prevention and personal responsibility.” Necessary now that society is aging and more young people are turning to Youth Care.
The Liberal Party continues to sound the alarm about safety. In traffic, but also on the street and at school. "By being part of problematic youth groups, young people are more likely to end up in crime," says Jean-Marie Frerichs.
'Safety is compromised'
Concerns shared by the other parties. “Safety in our public space is affected by notorious speeders, hanging around scum, including drifting and wandering migrant workers, and young dealers,” sometimes Gisela van Beek (Local Halderberge) notes. The recently adopted additional boas must therefore be used as best as possible to prevent this. But for WOS Halderberge this is still not sufficient.
D66 and PvdA/GroenLinks prefer prevention rather than enforcement to tackle the problem at the source. The latter has an idea to achieve this: additional youth and street workers.
Structurally building too little
As in previous years, housing construction is a hot topic. There are plenty of ambitions, but why is the construction of homes in Halderberge structurally lagging behind comparable municipalities, WOS Halderberge wonders. The VVD fears that the Environmental Act and the high construction costs threaten the desire for 1,000 additional homes.
Residents are sent from pillar to post and permits are only issued a few days before the event
On the other hand, the opposition parties are not only concerned with building more, but above all with a diverse housing supply. "We have our reservations about whether you can consider homes up to 335,000 euros as affordable," says Mark Buijs (D66).
Unheard residents
A point of attention for the council and civil servants: residents who do not feel heard. "Residents are sent from pillar to post and permits are only issued a few days before the event. This is to the annoyance and frustration of residents, entrepreneurs and other parties,” says Simone Dirven (CDA).
The municipality should think about solutions more often, says WOS faction chairman Will Meurer. “Communicating with residents increasingly requires an empathetic, flexible and coaching attitude instead of just applying and explaining the rules.”
Subsistence security
And just like in national politics, the term social security appears on the wish lists of some political groups this year. “As local politicians, we sometimes have a small, but sometimes also a major influence on people's livelihoods,” says Claudia van Domburgh (PvdA/GroenLinks).

Load Date: November 10, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")