Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=With the fourth alderman, the new council in Heumen will become slightly more expensive
The Gelderlander
May 31, 2018 Thursday
Rijk van Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2018 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 381 words
Byline: MAARTEN REITH
Highlight: With four aldermen, the new council of mayor and aldermen (B and W) in the municipality of Heumen will be slightly more expensive than the previous council.
Body


The so-called time expenditure standard grows from 3 to 3.3 FTE. This costs the municipality an extra 26,000 euros per year, B and W wrote in a communication to the municipal council.

The increase is the direct result of the fact that all four coalition parties (CDA, D66, GroenLinks and VVD) provide an alderman. Although being a councilor is a task that requires more than full-time commitment from them, they are paid part-time (0.825 FTE).

"The municipality gets four aldermen for the price of three," summarizes Leo Bosland (GroenLinks), like a true market trader. At the end of the period, the previous council had three aldermen who were paid full-time.

The size of B and W is growing steadily. Until 2014, Heumen still had a council of 2.25 FTE, at the start of the council period 2014-2018 the size was increased to 2.5 FTE. In 2017, the time commitment standard was increased to 3 FTE; then councilor Eric Laurant initially worked on a part-time basis, but soon turned out to be working more than full-time for the municipality, just like the other two councilors. The reasoning was therefore that it would be fair if he were paid the same as his colleagues.

According to the new council, the three previous councilors 'had their hands full carrying out all the work'.

In addition to the increase in the number of aldermen from three to four, the council also believes that the further increase in the size of the formation is justified because of 'the strong ambition' in the coalition agreement. 'There are various major issues at stake, such as resident participation, sustainability and the Environmental Act. Realizing this ambition requires sufficient administrative attention," the municipal executive wrote to the municipal council. 'Due to increasing cooperation in the region, the number of administrative consultations and coordination moments is also increasing.'
Below standard
Moreover, the Municipal Executive is currently still below the standard, because prospective VVD councilor René Waas has not yet been installed. He is awaiting his Certificate of Good Conduct (VOG). It hadn't arrived yesterday. If this is issued at the last minute, he could still be appointed during the council meeting tonight. Otherwise he will have to wait until the next meeting in June.

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: May 30, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")