Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental association is looking for ways to gain more influence
The Gelderlander
February 7, 2022 Monday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 456 words
Byline: FRANK HERMANS
Body


Pesticides that blow away. Toxic ingredients of manure that ultimately end up in drinking water. Air quality that is completely inadequate near pig and chicken farms. But also cycle routes to school that are unsafe.

According to the Land van Cuijk Environmental Association, citizens must be much more alert to the increasing risks that they believe exist. "Because the government is making more and more of a mess," says vice-chairman Geert Verstegen of the environmental organization, which has been active since 1980 and has about two hundred members.

The association will hold an information evening in Sint Hubert on Wednesday to inform interested parties about new opportunities. Residents of Land van Cuijk can influence future municipal and provincial decision-making. These are themes that directly affect our health. Two experts from the GGD and oncological surgeon Ignas van Bebber from the Jeroen Bosch Hospital will provide an explanation.

The Land van Cuijk Environmental Association has been closely monitoring projects for years that, according to its members, damage the environment. Developments at the concrete plant in Boxmeer, a manure processor in Mill and Rijkswaterstaat and the province that want to give more space to the Maas at Oeffelt at the expense of the Maas hedge area can count on critical questions and, if necessary, objections.

According to the environmental organization, new opportunities are presenting themselves because there will be changes in legislation. “26 laws are being put together. Everything comes under a common 'environmental law'. This includes legislation and regulations on building, the environment, water, spatial planning and nature." Municipal councils are given the opportunity to determine how they want to regulate citizen participation. "We think it is important to give citizens as much mandate as possible "We want to stand up for that."

Instead of just acting as a sounding board group, Verstegen is thinking about having budgets for citizen groups available to him. “In any case, we have to become more involved in our immediate environment. Look at the biodiversity, the dirty air everywhere and the contaminated drinking water. Then you see that things are not going well now."

In the coming months, the Land van Cuijk municipal council will also determine how participation will be arranged here from now on. "On Wednesday evening we want to see how we can best use our influence on this. It is in everyone's interest that we, as directly involved citizens, have more influence."

You can register for the meeting via e-mail: Milieuswet@mlvc.nl. It starts at 7:30 PM in De Jachthoorn in Sint Hubert.
In any case, we need to become more involved in our immediate environment

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: February 6, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")