Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=At least eighty new civil servants for Meierijstad: How do you get them? Is a high salary enough?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 9, 2023 Thursday 12:02 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 758 words
Byline: Paul Roovers
Body


VEGHEL/SCHIJNDEL - Eighty civil servants will be added in Meierijstad from next year. That's a big deal. Apart from the question of what they are needed for, perhaps even more important is: where on earth do you get them from?
Many questions from factions in the Meierijstad municipal council about the 2024 budget concerned the expansion of the civil service by eighty FTE. Apart from temporary new staff who are only needed for three or four years due to temporary additional tasks, there are almost 54 full-time jobs in the municipality that need to be filled on a structural basis. This costs the municipality about 4 million euros extra annually.
The news raises several questions. With council members, but certainly also with citizens. The Brabants Dagblad answers.
Why is expansion necessary at all?
The mayor and aldermen are firmly convinced that the expansion of the formation is necessary. Various studies and interviews with civil servants show that the workload is too high and that it cannot be moderated by other interventions.
Earlier this year, the council had predicted that it would come up with proposals during the budget discussion. Because: "The official capacity must be in accordance with the administrative ambitions and enormous pressure is being experienced in various places in the organization."
Where does Meierijstad need people?
Meierijstad has not been able to moderate the increased workload with other measures in the recent period. So ultimately the question to department heads was: where is the problem and where is expansion necessary? And that is in quite a few departments that are called work studios in Meierijstad: the council lists 23 departments, from ICT and civil affairs to neighborhood advisors and public areas. And then of course extra people are needed at HR to facilitate all those extra colleagues.
Meierijstad is not the only municipality looking for staff. A national survey shows that there were 11,000 vacancies last year, 80 percent more than before corona. There are many vacancies, especially in the field of ICT and spatial planning. In the latter sector also due to the introduction of the new Environmental Act from 1 January.
Why would anyone want to work in Meierijstad?
“Because Meierijstad is an interesting employer,” says councilor Jan Goijaarts. According to the council, this has to do with the size of the municipality (more than 80,000 inhabitants), its ambitions and the way of working. “We have enormous strength and are quite ambitious as a board and organization. This leads to many innovative projects and assignments and we almost never say no to a citizens' initiative.”
Is that convincing enough for candidates?
That remains to be seen, of course. Experts say that municipalities should mainly think about how they want to profile themselves towards candidates. They are not sufficiently distinguishable from each other, many recruitment campaigns are similar. Municipalities also want support in setting up these types of campaigns. In any case, it is good to approach those different groups. Many people are not actively looking for a new job until they are made aware of it in some way.
Municipalities must also think about the requirements they impose. Everyone wants a new colleague with a lot of experience. That requirement is often too high a threshold for young people. And perhaps that experience can be found in-house and you can then bring in a young person from another place.
Meierijstad also wants young graduates to work as trainees in several departments. This way they can get to know the organization better and know better whether a vacant position suits them. The Municipal Labor Market and Training Fund Foundation also advises recruiting young people through internships.
Do candidates always go for the highest salary?
No, often not, as various studies show. You must carefully consider what is important for people to apply for a job with you as an employer. Young people, for example, value a good working atmosphere. The content of the work is also decisive, just as the distance to the workplace and flexible working hours.
With so many extra FTEs, hiring (expensive) external consultants is no longer necessary, right?
No! Some positions are so specialized and temporary that you can only obtain that knowledge outside the home. On average, municipalities in the Netherlands obtain a quarter of the advice outside the home. Meierijstad also wants to deal with it differently: there will be an internal flex pool of specialists.

Load Date: November 9, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")