Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Moerdijk invests more than €100,000 in a culture coach, an outdoor stage and sound technology in De Schuur
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 15, 2023 Wednesday 09:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 482 words
Byline: Wim van den Broek
Body


ZEVENBERGEN - Culture must be experienced and heritage must be preserved. That is the gist of the culture and heritage memorandum, which the municipality of Moerdijk will present to the council next month.
Slightly more concrete than 'experience' and 'conservation' are a number of measures prescribed by the memorandum. For example, a study will be conducted into the possibilities for an outdoor stage for open-air performances and concerts. Existing locations must be made suitable for larger performances. And a culture coach is appointed.
"We want to make an extra effort, together with our culture and heritage partners, to provide an even more appealing cultural offering," said councilor Danny Dingemans. “The creativity comes from the providers themselves, we provide support.”
Without this contribution, De Schuur theater can no longer continue in this form
The municipality wants to play a stimulating role in setting up new activities, for example holding commemorations. Subsidies for cultural institutions must also be simplified. "It is also important that heritage policy is properly aligned with the new Environmental Act."
The barn
The Moerdijk culture and heritage memorandum is entitled 'Harnessing the power of culture and heritage'. Music and theater companies, artists and culture bearers should be able to use it for the next four years. The municipality wants to allocate 127,000 euros to appoint a culture coach and other investments in the field of culture and heritage. Of this, 27,000 euros will go to a new light and sound installation for the De Schuur theater in Zevenbergen. “Without that contribution, the theater can no longer continue in this form,” Dingemans explains.
Culture and heritage contribute to the identity of the municipality, to what makes Moerdijk special
The policy document was preceded by a number of meetings with culture and heritage bearers. A survey was conducted among the residents' panel. That formed the input for the memorandum. Councilor Bennie Blom noted during those sessions that much is already in order. "Culture and heritage contribute to the identity of the municipality of Moerdijk, to what makes Moerdijk special. The residents of Moerdijk are passionate about culture and heritage. They contribute to a pleasant living environment, provide inspiration and encounters and give a feeling of pride in and connection with Moerdijk.”
Three pillars
Both councilors believe it is worthwhile to preserve, connect and experience the rich cultural life and heritage. The memorandum consists of three pillars. Firstly, connecting all those Moerdijk clubs with thousands of members. In addition, heritage and cultural activities provide an attractive living environment that both residents and visitors enjoy. Finally, culture and heritage can only provide connection and be experienced if they are preserved.

Load Date: November 15, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")