Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Does the wood stove have to be turned off soon?
The Gelderlander
May 11, 2023 Thursday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 454 words
Highlight: Burning a wood stove may soon be prohibited in Nijmegen if the air quality outside is moderate or poor and there is not enough wind. Members of the municipal council want to further limit wood burning.
Body


Nijmegen councilors want a ban on burning with code orange/red Stookwijzer
Mitchel Suijkerbuijk

Nijmegen

"The health of Nijmegen residents must come first," says GroenLinks councilor Abdulahi Hussen. Together with fellow party member Jasmijn Kraaijeveld, he is the initiator of questions to the city council. With the Nijmegen factions of SP, D66 and Party for the Animals, together they represent a political majority. , they ask to ban burning if the Stookwijzer turns red or orange.

The online Heating Guide of the Living Environment Information Point continuously provides heating advice per zip code. That is based on air quality and wind speed. With code blue, burning wood is less harmful to health, with red or orange it is advisable to leave the stove off.

Such advice does not go far enough for the council members. They want a local ban on burning with the latter codes. Until now this was legally unfeasible. From January 1, 2024, this could be arranged via the Environmental Act, which will then come into effect. Amersfoort is imposing a similar ban.

"Follow this example and start working on this now to arrange this from January," Hussen pleads. "Wood burning is one of the largest sources of air pollution. A large group suffers from respiratory complaints as a result. It is us Nijmegen residents are obliged to do something about this."

In Amersfoort, opponents question the feasibility: how could this be enforced? In Nijmegen, the parties first want to ask the city council to find out what is possible, says Hussen.

In the long term they want more measures. Only allow lighting during certain hours, for example, or designate combustion-free neighborhoods.

Lars Hein, professor of ecosystem services and environmental change at Wageningen University, welcomes the proposals. His research previously showed that every year about two thousand Dutch people die prematurely as a result of heating. On average, they die about ten years earlier. The particulate matter that enters the air is especially harmful. This substance can enter the bloodstream and thus contribute to the clogging of blood vessels.

Smoking increases the risk of a heart attack or cerebral infarction, as well as asthma, bronchitis and lung cancer. "It is an underestimated problem," says Hein. "That is why it is a big step forward that politicians in Nijmegen are coming up with this. With code blue the smoke spreads, but with code orange or red the pollution remains in the immediate vicinity. People who burn wood, but their neighbors also suffer from it. Banning it therefore counteracts a large part of those health effects."
Research shows that every year about two thousand Dutch people die prematurely as a result of heating

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: May 10, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")