Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Beek suspects that odor nuisance comes from plastic processor CeDo
The Limburger
January 7, 2022 Friday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 443 words
Byline: Paul Dolhain
Body


No direct violations related to odor nuisance were found at CeDo Recycling in Geleen. There is, however, illegal storage. Beek suspects that this storage is the cause.
After a visit to the Geleen plastic processing company in August last year, the Regional Implementation Service South Limburg (RUD) compiled a report to map the company. This happened at the request of the municipalities of Sittard-Geleen and Beek. Complaints have been received for years from residents who state that the CeDo located at De Asselen Kuil causes odor nuisance in Neerbeek and parts of Beek. The report was secret because of the business-sensitive information, but is now in the hands of De Limburger through a request under the Public Administration Act.
The report states that CeDo has detected an odor, but that it remains within the permit standards. According to the RUD, most of the odor comes from the production hall.
Nasty smell
'It is a distinctly sickly smell. There is a gate in the immediate vicinity of this location. If the gate is open, the smell will easily spread in the downwind area (Neerbeek, Proosdijveld and Makado, ed.). In addition, the sickly smell is strongly perceived when the plastics are reduced in size. The obligation to close the gates of the production halls is not directly included in the requirements of the applicable permit. In the context of the duty of care, the company must in any case close the gates when processing plastic waste.'
The RUD has noted another violation: CeDo stores goods on site that do not (fully) fall within the environmental permit. Alderman Hub Schoenmakers (Environment, Environmental Act) of the municipality of Beek suspects that this illegal storage is related to the odor nuisance. "By changing the layout, CeDo not only has additional waste storage, but also two additional production lines in operation. I suspect that once this waste is gone, the odor will also diminish.”
CeDo does not agree with the statement that it stores illegal waste and has submitted a statement that the RUD is currently studying. The implementation agency may decide to impose a penalty in order to put an end to illegal storage. CeDo can object to this.
Fly nuisance
The results of another study will also be available soon. Pest controller Sjaak Janssen has been assigned to determine the cause of the fly nuisance in Neerbeek and Beek.
I suspect that once this waste is gone, the smell will diminish as well.
Councilor Hub Schoenmakers
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 6, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")