Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Should I be told what smells in my future residential area? 'People also have to do their own research'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 22, 2024 Friday 06:08 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 731 words
Byline: Albert Heller
Body


There is a lot of praise for the municipality of Renkum's plan to alert buyers of new-build homes to odor nuisance from a nearby factory. But there are also questions. What does it mean for the marketability of houses in the area? “Ultimately, the buyer decides whether he or she finds the smell acceptable.”
He has experienced it before, says environmental expert Cor Coenrady. People who viewed a house on the weekend, bought it and only then discovered that a factory next to their house emits a strong odor during the week. Or just makes a lot of noise. “That is of course not possible if you as a buyer were not informed of this.”
And so Coenrady is pleased that the municipality of Renkum will oblige project developers to report that the paper factory in the village regularly causes odor nuisance. "It is good that people know where they are going to live." Hans André de la Porte of the Eigen Huis association also thinks so. “It is good that buyers are made aware of this.”
However, as a buyer you cannot rely solely on the information presented to you. You have an obligation to investigate yourself, says De La Porte. "That's about the condition of the house. But it is also about the living environment. And if you buy a house near a railway line, you should not be surprised after the purchase that there is noise pollution. You have to find out something like that yourself in advance.”
Scent is very personal
This also applies to possible odor nuisance, says Marc van der Lee of the Dutch Association of Real Estate Agents (NVM). “Smell is sometimes a gray area. What is an unpleasant smell for one person is not for another. Think of someone who is going to live in a rural area. Then you know that there are farms that can emit a certain smell. Ultimately, the buyer decides whether he or she finds that smell acceptable.”
Renkum is not the only place where developers are obliged to pass on risks to buyers. In the municipality of Bronckhorst, for example, information must be provided about the presence of goat farms. There is an increased risk of pneumonia around goat farms.
Not everyone is always enthusiastic about the emphasis placed on the nuisance of odors or something else in a particular neighborhood. Some homeowners fear that their house will become less valuable if there are constant demonstrations against nuisance caused by odor or noise. This recently occurred around biomass installations in Ede and also occurs in Renkum.
Van der Lee thinks that most homeowners do not have to worry about this much at the moment. “Smell remains a personal experience.” In addition, the housing market is very tight. “And then buyers are less critical. We are short of 400,000 homes nationally. The housing shortage will therefore remain for the time being.”
Factories must do something about the odor nuisance
Moreover, says Coenrady, in many places there is something you can do about the odor nuisance itself. Municipalities have been responsible for this since the recent introduction of the Environmental Act. They can establish odor rules and determine environmental values. The environmental services carry out checks on this. Environmental services can also force factories to use the best techniques available on the market. Consider filters to filter air on top of chimneys.
For example, there is a lot of discussion about the techniques that Parenco uses. "I fear that environmental services do not have enough knowledge to always determine this properly. So they often do not prescribe the best solution, even though it is available on the market. Factories are obliged by European rules to use the 'best available techniques'," says Coenrady.
There are also other solutions to put an end to the nuisance that residents experience. For example, the municipality of Nijmegen bought out an asphalt plant that was the subject of much controversy for years.
Forbid local residents to complain
Sometimes companies act themselves to counter complaints. However, they do not always do this in a way that is seen as desirable by the government. Buyers of a neighborhood with a new-build home in Ermelo only received the key if they promised not to complain about the nearby duck slaughterhouse. If they did, they were fined 10,000 euros. Such a thing is not possible, said Minister Weerwind. “Everyone should have access to justice.”

Load Date: March 22, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")