Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Mosaqua is now in financial trouble
The Limburger
March 27, 2024 Wednesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: BACKGROUND; Page 6
Length: 599 words
Body


Gulpen-Wittem has made public the 'underlying documents' of the proposal to close Mosaqua as announced. The documents should make it clear why the popular swimming pool in Gulpen must be closed.
The 'Keep Mosaqua open' committee does not believe that there is no future for the subtropical swimming paradise in Gulpen, as the municipality claims. And there are many people who, along with the action group, doubt the explanation of councilor Jos Last (Balans) and his advisors: the committee's online petition has now been signed more than ten thousand times.
The news that Mosaqua will close in 2025 and possibly be demolished came as a bombshell last week. Avid swimmers and sun worshipers rioted en masse on social media. They could not believe that a swimming pool that attracts 220,000 visitors annually has no right to exist. 'But why? Does the municipality need money for its new town hall?
Renovation
Alderman Last announced at the time that 'the underlying documents' would make it clear why the council is coming up with this rigorous proposal. These documents have now been published as an appendix to the council proposal that will be discussed in the council committee on Wednesday, April 10 and submitted to the municipal council for decision-making on Thursday, April 25.
What do those 'pieces' say? Among other things, the municipality must extensively renovate the swimming pool, which will be fully owned again from July 1, 2025, over the next ten years. Although the complex, which opened in 1979, has been renovated and refurbished in recent years, it remains 'a dated building' according to consultants Ando van de Pol and Jos Bauer.
The new Environmental Act, which has been in force since January 1, places high demands on (semi-)public buildings. These also apply to Mosaqua. The building will therefore have to be made more sustainable. The roof, facades and windows need to be replaced. This requires an investment of at least five million euros, which would increase the annual deficit to the aforementioned eight thousand euros.
Van de Pol and Bauer question the significance of Mosaqua as a tourist 'attractor', despite the fact that the swimming pool has 220,000 visitors annually. At the festive opening in 1979, that function was still evident: "Within the Heuvelland there was little or limited bathing water." It was therefore logical that Mosaqua was 'embraced'.
Playing field
 That is different now, Van de Pol and Bauer note: "The playing field of the tourist Heuvelland has now completely changed. There are many alternatives for a day of swimming. Visitors who find swimming options important are increasingly opting for a short holiday at a thematic water park such as Landal.
There may still be room in Gulpen for a 'target group pool' for its own residents. Mosaqua is far too big for that, Van de Pol and Bauer conclude, so a new swimming pool would have to be built. Costs: six to seven tons per year. But even that seems unfeasible for a small municipality with a shrinking population, they fear.
Mosaqua still has major doubts about the calculation made by the municipality and its advisors. Director Bertil Kaanen now has the documents on his desk. "We are busy analyzing them," he says. He is still convinced that a subtropical swimming pool in Gulpen-Wittem is feasible. He is waiting for his 'counter budget'.
The building should be further made more sustainable. Roof, facades and windows need to be renewed. This requires an investment of at least five million euros, which would increase the annual deficit to eight thousand euros.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 26, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")