Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Conservationists: no new construction in a buffer zone of 250 meters around greenery
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 10, 2024 Wednesday 03:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 681 words
Byline: Rémon van Zuijlen
Body


Create buffer zones of 250 meters around nature reserves in Zoetermeer in which no new construction is allowed. Two nature conservation organizations advocate this.
They do this in a letter to the municipal council of Zoetermeer and right now: the new Environmental Act has just come into effect and that offers the opportunity to introduce zones that cannot be built on, says the General Association for Nature Conservation for The Hague and Surroundings (AVN). supported by chairman Leon van den Berg of the Buytenpark Quality Team Foundation. The latter is also portfolio holder Zoetermeer at the AVN.
The clubs want those extra nature conservation buffers of at least 250 meters in and around the municipal parks. This concerns green, nature-designated areas such as Balijbos, Westerpark, Buytenpark, but also Burgemeester Van Tuyllpark and Burgemeester Hoekstrapark. The buffer zones must protect biodiversity there by not allowing new buildings and limiting light and noise pollution. These green buffer areas should have allotments and sports fields lined with greenery, but not padel courts, the AVN cites as examples. If it were really necessary, only low buildings with green roofs should be allowed in those buffer zones, the AVN proposes.
'Locked'
Van den Berg does not think that Zoetermeer will be 'locked' with such a rule; that no more construction can be done. “We are not against building, people have to live somewhere,” says Zoetermeer about the buffer zones. “Existing buildings may remain or be replaced. A farm that makes way for several homes, such as the Zilverster on the Voorweg, is negotiable. But we can prevent new buildings in green areas.”
Existing buildings may remain or be replaced. A farm that makes way for several homes, such as the Zilverster on the Voorweg, is negotiable. But we can easily prevent new buildings in green areas
Because there is such a small building in the green, something will be added to it and before you know it it will be moving towards new buildings, reasons the Zoetermeer nature lover. “If you are not careful, nature will be the loser again. Nature has no voice, that's why we stand up for it.”
There are also exceptions as far as the AVN is concerned: Van den Berg does not see the Vernède Park as a green area that needs a buffer zone because it is a sports park. Nature lovers are keeping a close eye on the development of the former Dutch Water Dreams in the Van Tuyll Park next to the Plas van Poot nature reserve. “We are open to constructive consultation with the owners,” says Van den Berg.
Environmental plan
As far as nature lovers are concerned, early 2024 is the time to act: the Environmental Act came into effect on January 1 and this has far-reaching consequences. The municipality must convert the known zoning plans that the municipality has for parts of its territory into a single environmental plan. The AVN believes this is a good time to tighten the rules with more attention to nature. The letter was sent to the municipal council at the beginning of this week, so there has been no response yet.
The Quality Team also requested buffer zones in April last year, then for the Buyten Park in response to the plan for the construction of a hotel at SnowWorld. Zoetermeer is not the first municipality to receive a request for a buffer zone from the AVN. The Hague and Westland, among others, also received such a request. The Hague does have an agreement with Dunea and the Hollandse Duinen National Park about buffer areas along the coastal nature. AVN would also like to see buffers around other green areas in The Hague and has also argued in vain for zones around the large green areas and ecological zones between the cities.
Follow AD Zoetermeer now via WhatsApp! Tip: Turn on notifications at the top right for all the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp channels and how to use them here. Do you have a tip or comment for the editors? Send us a WhatsApp message on 06-27377816.
Watch our news videos below that were recorded in Zoetermeer and the surrounding area in recent days.

Load Date: January 9, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")