Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Netherlands is moving from sober arable land to stagnant land
NRC
April 22, 2024 Monday
1st Edition


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 18
Length: 918 words
Byline: Bjarne Mastenbroek

Bjarne Mastenbroek
Body


ABSTRACT
Too much money is seeping away into building regulations in the Netherlands, writes Bjarne Mastenbroek. Remove three quarters of the rules and take all those advisors and stakeholders off the drawing board.
COMPLETE TEXT:
It was announced on Thursday that the renovation costs of the Binnenhof, after having previously doubled to 843.6 million euros, now amount to 2 billion euros. The Binnenhof covers almost 90,000 m2 and to bring this neglected complex back into good condition, significant investments will be required. Only 2 billion!
In July 2019, I was surprised in a letter I submitted about the enormous costs of the 'royal restoration' of Huis ten Bosch (more than 63 million) and the Binnenhof (450 million). What I could not have known at the time was that Ellen van Loon, the architect appointed for the restoration of the Binnenhof, was fired because of her 'megalomaniac' idea to integrate a few palms into a glass-covered inner street. This would be proof of the architect's wasteful nature, as befits the reputation of OMA, the office where she works.
A completely absurd statement because a negligible part of the total budget would be spent on those palms. The dismissal was clearly the result of The Hague's culture of settlement in combination with the cringing ignorance of the politicians involved. The bizarre price increase of the Binnenhof renovation has nothing to do with the even more expensive architect who was hired after Van Loon's dismissal. The real explanation is not a wet basement, asbestos or a loose ceiling.
The Netherlands has rapidly changed from a down-to-earth, flexible polder model country to a country that is drowning in rules, protocols and a super pile of requirements. This development is promoted by the proliferation of consultancy firms, experts, managers, consultants, controllers or lawyers, all of which complicate the construction sector and have come to be seen as an important revenue model.
In addition, we have a new environmental law that often allows countless 'stakeholders' to discuss a project through the environmental table, even though they hardly have a direct interest. This urge to regulate has gotten completely out of hand. In the eighties and nineties it was decided that architects would be better off leaving the calculation, planning, management and implementation drawings to 'experts'; Doing it yourself would be too expensive, too slow and would result in too many construction errors. Thirty years have passed and we see that construction projects have become much more expensive than inflation would explain. They also last at least twice as long and construction errors are absolutely inevitable.
That central task of the architect was not so crazy. See also the German-speaking countries, France or Scandinavia, where it still largely works this way. Buildings are made significantly better. Look at the United States or England and tears come to your eyes, so bad.
The Netherlands is a stuck country: everyone is an advisor, everyone is an auditor or behind the computer, but no one really makes anything anymore. The result is that we have to wait years for things that are actually not that difficult.
Also look at the Benefits Affair, the earthquake damage (in many cases the legal costs turned out to use 80 percent of the budget, 20 percent was for the actual repair), the stagnant housing construction, the failing education or the decline in healthcare.
The only solution is really: scrap three quarters of the rules and remove just as many advisors and stakeholders. They are very expensive, do not lead to a better project and we desperately need all those people in other sectors. It also disturbs anyone who 'just wants to get to work'. Have confidence in the good professionals and keep it compact.
Is this going to happen? No. In the meantime, too many people are (financially) dependent on, or benefit from, this unnecessary complication of life.
A good friend of mine in America has to have the metal stud walls checked three times before he can continue with the renovation: after installing the studs, after screwing the plasterboard and after plastering. The people who carry out these checks are often former civil servants, who squeeze a good pension out of the construction sector in the twilight of their careers. It will not surprise you that these expensive checks are extremely inconvenient and slow down, but there is always a solution for that: money. I'm afraid we're slowly drifting in that direction.
I also call on politicians to do something about this, but I also doubt whether this will happen. The right-wing parties that are now in the lead are profiting from this "clusterfuck", as Ilja Leonard Pfeijffer so well described in an interview with Tegenlicht (VPRO). Because of all these pent-up frustrations, more and more voters are voting for right-wing parties.
Of course, the Binnenhof deserves a beautiful restoration. Building materials have become considerably more expensive and wage costs have risen, which probably explains the significant price increase. But 444 percent?
You simply cannot spend 22,000 euros per square meter, not even on the Binnenhof, even if it was completely burned out. Too much money is seeping away from the late capitalist system described above that we built ourselves while we saw the Binnenhof slowly crumble, both architecturally and morally.
The Netherlands is moving from sober arable land to stagnant land
The construction sector is struggling with a proliferation of consultants and lawyers
Bjarne Mastenbroek is the founder of SeARCH architects.
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
The escalator in the Statenpassage in the House of Representatives building.
Photo Freek van den Bergh / ANP

Load Date: April 21, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")