Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No more searching everywhere with a magnet in water
The Gelderlander
November 28, 2023 Tuesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 403 words
Byline: WOUT DUSSELDORP
Highlight: Treasure hunting with a magnet in the water is prohibited in some places in East Gelre. According to the municipality, magnetic fishing is dangerous and polluting.
Body


East Gelre announces ban, locations are not yet known
Wout Dusseldorp

Groenlo

Oost Gelre will assess per location whether magnetic fishing is still allowed. The municipality wants to guarantee safety around the waterfront and the quality of the water.

With magnet fishing, treasure hunters pull a strong magnet on a rope across the bottom of a ditch or canal, for example. The hope is that hidden treasures will be found in this way.

The loot is usually scrap iron, but sometimes people also brought safes, historical objects, weapons and explosives to the surface. And the last two categories in particular can cause danger.

The Defense Explosive Ordnance Disposal Service previously warned that magnetic fishing is not without risk. The service is regularly called when an old explosive device is recovered from the water. In places where there was heavy fighting during the Second World War, such as Nijmegen, a ban has therefore already been imposed.

Bombings were also carried out in Groenlo, Lichtenvoorde and Lievelde during that war. In addition, it is known that German soldiers have rid themselves of ammunition in the region. To minimize the chance of these items being 'found' in the water, the municipality wants to ban magnetic fishing.

According to the municipality, disturbing the soil is also undesirable. Pulling a heavy magnet over the bottom causes clouding. This can bring contamination to the surface, which can endanger water quality. It is a concern shared by the Groenlose Angling Association (GHV). He submitted the request for a ban to the municipality. GHV would like to see magnetic fishing in the canal in Groenlo banned.

Whether that will actually happen remains to be seen. The municipality has indicated that it wants to ban the hobby 'in a number of places'. This will be possible by explicitly including the ban in the new Environmental Act, which must come into effect in January.

It is still unknown exactly which places will be banned. "We have to figure out legally how we can implement this," says a municipal spokesperson.

Magnet fishing is not prohibited in East Gelre. And there is no question of a total ban with the new arrangement, according to the municipality. "By being able to impose a ban per location, customization is possible," says the spokesperson.

View the original page: page 1

Graphic

 
The young magnet fishermen Meral, Ronan and Jojakim removed an explosive from the water of the Oude IJssel in Doetinchem in 2020. The EOD defused the bomb, probably a grenade. They showed the photographer their other loot. PHOTO Jan van den Brink

Load Date: November 27, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")