Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='New construction as a flywheel for quality of life'
The Limburger
May 18, 2021 Tuesday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5
Length: 375 words
Byline: Maikel Suilen
Body


The search for a new school building for Sint Ursula is the perfect opportunity to also tackle other problems in Leudal. 'Dear city council, seize this opportunity and come up with a thorough plan' is the emphatic call from the audit committee.
An audit letter calls on politicians to look beyond just a new school building for Ursula, if the locations in Horn and Heythuysen soon disappear. Is it possible to collaborate with associations, is it possible to combine it with (youth) care or can some of the (practical) lessons also be given elsewhere, for example at companies in the region?
In short: see how new construction for Sint Ursula, and education in general, can help maintain the quality of life in the villages.
Vision
The combination of education and quality of life is in any case strong in Leudal, since the announced closure of the primary schools in Buggenum, Heibloem and Kelpen-Oler in December. The Municipal Executive was then instructed to take a closer look at the quality of life in the small centers and to come up with a plan for the future. Nothing has come of it so far.
The audit office now states that closing schools 'can cause administrative and political problems' if there is no 'deeper vision of facilities' that will maintain the quality of life in the villages. It sees the new building for Ursula as an ideal opportunity to work on such a vision in view of the new Environmental Act that will be introduced in 2022.
Big investment
Discussions about the new construction are on the agenda in September. The municipal council can use the coming period to come up with a plan so that this can be included in the decision to be made. What do we as a council consider important in the areas of accommodations, sports and care, how much should something like this cost and how can a new school connect to this?
It is important to have a clear picture of this in advance, the audit office says, before decisions are made. After all, it is a major project, requiring a significant investment (forty million). In the past, Leudal certainly did not excel in showing vision, the audit office now points out again. 'Take this chance' is the message.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 3, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")