Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New habitat for dozens of bats and house sparrows
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 23, 2024 Friday 07:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 312 words
Byline: Lynn den Hartog
Body


It is a striking sight on the Vlietweg in Dordrecht: cupboards have been hung on the facades of the houses there. A number of residents want to take care of the bats and house sparrows that lose their shelter elsewhere.
They are currently still in the buildings on Weeskinderendijk Noord, which have to make way for the new Maasterras construction plan. Demolition can only begin once the animals have found a new home. The bat is a protected species. Under the Environmental Act, the municipality must make provisions for four times as many animals.<br><br>Sixteen residents of the Vlietweg offered their house and garden for these animals. "Despite the varied reactions about the Maasterras, I have been pleasantly surprised by the great willingness to help these animals out," says city ecologist Sjoerd Dirk Fiaschi-van der Est.
Fauna Protect, which specializes in installing the hives, installed ten bat hives and eighteen house sparrow hives last week. "The cabinets will be placed on the gable ends of terraced houses and on the side walls of semi-detached houses."
Some houses are equipped with multiple bat boxes. "The boxes resemble letterboxes, with a small opening, through which bats can easily fly in." The bat boxes offer space for dozens of bats. The house sparrow hives have more space, but are often inhabited by pairs.
A nest
The animals have not yet left their place. There is currently one nest with pipistrelle bats and six nests with house sparrows have been counted. "We have now already hung the new cabinets, so that the animals can find their new place in time."
The animals' new home is a temporary solution. The intention is that the animals will temporarily take refuge in the Vlietweg until the new construction is completed. The permanent cabinets will then be delivered along with the construction.

Load Date: February 23, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")