Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New natural law is a risky business
The Gelderlander
March 16, 2016 Wednesday
Valley


Copyright 2016 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 8
Length: 385 words
Byline: BY LEFFERT OLDENKAMP
Body


NATURE CLOSE
The new Nature Conservation Act was adopted in January. This should come into effect on January 1 next year. The law is a merger of three existing laws: the Forest Act (1961), the Nature Conservation Act (1998) and the Flora and Fauna Act (2000). The government intended to make these three into a modern law that is simple in design. Powers are decentralized as much as possible: forest law matters fall into the hands of provinces, while municipalities with environmental permits are allowed to influence 'protected areas'.
In addition to an unfortunate timetable, with incomplete discussions, an unclear weighing of interests could have a bad outcome for citizens or nature. The new law is far from being operational. First of all, provinces and municipalities still have to draw up regulations, definitions and rules. Provinces also do this each for themselves. For example, each province may determine whether or not hunting can be practiced for pleasure. Or provide a definition of what 'responsible forest management' should entail. In Gelderland, forests will soon be allowed to make way for wind turbines, while this is being prevented in Drenthe. In all provinces, people and organizations who do not consider the wood supply important will argue for few or no trees in a 'forest'. Mountain bike routes can be tolerated sparingly or generously promoted, without natural values ​​playing a role in the decision.
Instead of the National Ecological Network (EHS), the so-called Natura 2000 network will form the framework for protected areas. Natura 2000 is established by the EU. Although through a lot of consultation with the groups involved, but in fact at a great distance from the citizen.
At municipal level, citizens have an interest in a clear trade-off between the use and protection of nature. In all of this, the national government intends not to have an Environmental Act ready until January 1, 2018, in which the Nature Conservation Act must fit. Many topics are then discussed again, resulting in more ambiguities.
The explanation states that the modern implementation will be 'policy-poor'. It is to be expected that every plant and animal in the Valley will be at risk and many citizens will have various reasons for protesting against something.

Graphic

 
With the new Nature Conservation Act, no longer cycling along the Grift? --PHOTO SOURCE--photo Leffert Oldenkamp

Load Date: March 16, 2016, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")