Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New housing construction plans in Beek not discussed for six months
The Limburger
October 6, 2023 Friday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: STAFF SHORTAGE; Page 5
Length: 414 words
Body


Beek will not be considering any new initiatives for housing construction for the time being. The reasons for this measure are the staff shortage and the introduction of the Environmental Act. The measure will certainly apply until the first quarter of 2024.
The council informed the municipal council of this in a letter. 'With the current workforce and the high turnover in the labor market, measures are necessary to be able to (continue to) deliver sufficient quality and at the same time to be able to continue to carry out core tasks in addition to ambitions', is the message. Permit applications, construction plans and new construction projects will therefore no longer be processed for the time being.
The municipality sets priorities. First of all, applications that have now been received are assessed and processed. In addition, housing plans where changes need to be made are also taken into consideration. All other construction initiatives will remain suspended for the time being.
Efficiency
"If the current situation offers room to take up new initiatives sooner, that will of course happen," said councilor Ralph Diederen (CDA). He indicates that this problem occurs in more municipalities. "We are therefore thinking about efficiency We also look at the municipality of Boekel, which issues innovative permits. Perhaps this is also something for us."
There are currently about forty initiatives under consideration. These vary from 1 to approximately 25 homes per project. “The length of the procedures varies. They can vary from a few months to several years. The lead time from initiative to final permit has become longer in recent years, which is partly due to changing regulations, but also to official capacity as a result of tightness on the labor market and the introduction of the Environmental Act," says a spokeswoman for the municipality of Beek .
Simplify
The Environmental Act will be introduced on January 1 and bundles 26 laws and numerous regulations into one law. In the long term it should simplify things, but in the run-up to its introduction it requires a new way of working and that costs the municipalities a lot of extra work and time.
The Beek coalition's objective is to build no fewer than 250 additional homes by 2026. Councilor Diederen emphasizes that this ambition, as it now appears, will be achieved.
There are currently about forty initiatives under consideration. These vary from 1 to approximately 25 homes per project.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 5, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")