Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New rules for streams, find out for yourself which ones
The Gelderlander
December 10, 2020 Thursday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 7
Length: 537 words
Byline: PIET VENHUIZEN
Highlight: Residents of the Rozendaalse Beek in Velp will have to deal with new rules. Which? You can find that out for yourself.
Body


Local residents of Rozendaalse Beek were unpleasantly surprised by the water board
Something is going to change for you, but we can't tell you what it is. It is something different for everyone. Would you like to find out for yourself on our website? And if you don't agree, we want to know before December 20.

In short, this was the content of the letter that the Rijn en IJssel Water Board sent in mid-November to a large number of residents of the Rozendaalse Beek in Velp. "I didn't understand it one bit," says René van der Graaff, resident of Schaapsdrift Overbeek, with the 1.40 meter wide and 20 centimeter deep stream behind his garden. “First I put that letter away. I didn't feel like it. Later I became restless. What did this mean? But the more I looked into it, the less I understood it.”

The same applied to Mark Snijders, also a resident of Schaapsdrift Overbeek. "I saw that you could click on two tickets on that site. On both maps I saw colored lines around the stream behind our house. Yellow lines, red lines, pink shading. But what did that mean? No idea. How were older people without digital skills supposed to deal with this?"

In the meantime, Van der Graaff had called the water board. "To my astonishment I heard that a protection zone will apply around our stream. And that is a zone of five meters on both sides. For many people, that is a large part of their backyard. If you want to plant a shrub, place a fence or dig a hole within that area, you will now have to apply for a permit from the water board. Well! I've lived here since 1979. Is this just possible?''

Bram de Vlieger of the water board says yes. He says that the water board has created the digital maps to be ready for the Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2022. From that moment on, you can see all the rules of all governments for each area on maps on the computer. “We have also made adjustments to waterways in some areas. In the Arnhem region only at the Rozendaalse Beek and the Beekhuizense Beek. But there are hardly any people living on the latter."

De Vlieger says that both streams are 'trained', which means that they largely flow within quays above the surrounding ground level. That is why this area will receive the same five-metre wide protection zone as the other 300 kilometers of quays of the water board. These are mainly located in the Achterhoek countryside, on the Berkel and the Schipbeek. "If you dig near such a quay, you can endanger the water system. We don't want that."

Snijders is stunned. "So we live on a quay? Then maybe Sinterklaas can arrive here next year?" Van der Graaff: "As if anything would ever happen to that stream here! For some people, that protection zone extends into the living room! Everyone is very careful with our stream, everyone understands that." ?''

Van der Graaff has now written an 'viewpoint'. "If you don't do that before December 20, that zone will apply, which is actually crazy," he says.

De Vlieger: "If the residents have good arguments, the map can always be adjusted."

View the original page: page 7

Graphic

 
Concerned residents of the Rozendaalse Beek. Marjo and René van der Graaff on the left, Siep de Jong in the middle, Yvette van Steeg on the right with her children Femke (left) and Anouk.

Load Date: December 9, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")