Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New twist in the matter surrounding apartments in Reuver
The Limburger
January 29, 2024 Monday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: URGENT HOME SEEKERS; Page 6
Length: 491 words
Body


Residents of Wederikstraat in Reuver are appalled by the state of affairs surrounding the controversial apartment complex for urgent housing seekers. Confidential documents show that the municipality decided against the Dijckerhof sports park when choosing a location, partly because there were objections from the football club.
In May, the municipality of Beesel announced that a two-storey complex is being built in Wederikstraat in collaboration with housing association Nester for people who urgently need a home. The Wederikstraat and Dijckerhof sports park were in the picture as a location. The municipality ultimately abandoned the last option.
Objection from football club
New information emerges from confidential documents in the hands of De Limburger. It now appears that VV Reuver at Dijckerhof had objections to the arrival of the houses. In an internal email dated May 24, 2022, then councilor Bram Jacobs wrote that the club 'is particularly concerned about the interaction and what would happen if the residents of this location had no activities during the day'. According to Beesel, the objections of the sports club and other local residents would hinder rapid construction, as can be concluded from other correspondence. The new information is a sore spot for residents of Wederikstraat, who are opposed to the arrival of the apartment complex. They fear that the temporary residents will have a huge impact on the neighborhood. "The objections that VV Reuver and local residents have are the same as ours. Apparently their objections weigh more heavily," says Luuk Simons on behalf of local residents.
According to councilor Anouk Huijs, the sports club's objections were not the main reason for choosing the Wederikstraat. The fact that there is already land there that is owned by the municipality was the deciding factor. "It is not the case that the interests of the sports club weigh more heavily. If we had chosen Dijckerhof, they would have had to give up part of their site. The questions they asked were real. Moreover, they were not unwilling to do so."
New chances
Yet the opportunities for the residents of Wederikstraat have not been lost. Due to an assessment error by the municipality, they are still given the opportunity to thwart the plans through an objection procedure. Initially, the municipality wanted to bypass the council with a temporary permit in order to be able to work more quickly. Local residents could not object to this. But because the new Environmental Act came into effect on January 1, which states that the council must also decide on temporary permits, the speed advantage is canceled out. That is why a permanent permit is still being applied for. This means that the plans cannot be implemented until the end of 2024. And this permit can be objected to. Simons says that the residents are determined to go all the way.
VV Reuver could not be reached for comment on Friday.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 28, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")