Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Beesel gets stubborn positivity
The Limburger
November 4, 2019 Monday
Venlo


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: INTERVIEW MAYOR; Page 5
Length: 706 words
Byline: Marcel Van Lier
Body


It was precisely his illustrious predecessor who first called to congratulate him on being nominated as the new mayor of the municipality, who embraced her and affectionately called her mooder. A sign with that pet name marked Petra Dassen's regular parking spot at the town hall in Reuver for years. Vostermans laughs. “Someone from the nomination committee started talking about it on Friday evening during drinks at my house. I don't want any privileges, I said. You have to earn something like that."
It is the day after in the Vostermans house. There is nothing to indicate that the new mayor of Beesel lives here, on the outskirts of Sevenum. Or it must be the dragon doll with which his four-year-old daughter Fleur greets the first guest on this Saturday morning. Bob and Yvon have just told her that Dad will be the boss of a village that has a thing for dragons. She is very happy with the glove puppet that her parents gave her as a gift.
Despite a long night, which ended at the closing party of Rowwen Hèze, which Vostermans visits every year with his Velden group of friends, and an early CDA meeting in Hegelsom, the councilor and coalition leader of Horst aan de Maas makes a fresh impression. As always. Next to the door is a box of chocolates. A gift from Kees van Rooij, former mayor of the municipality where Vostermans says he learned the 'trade' of a director. And, as it turns out, primarily responsible for this remarkable new step in his political career. “Kees is my role model, yes. How he fulfilled the role of connector and driving force, stood among people and always remained himself. That inspired me." He already saw himself in his mind with a chain of office. Becoming mayor, the idea became more and more attractive. "And preferably in North Limburg, I am a boy from the region. A small municipality would was a good fit for me, for example. And suddenly there was that vacancy."
That's where his future lies. Not in Maastricht or The Hague, no: Beesel. “A municipality that suits me in terms of appearance. Positive and stubborn. This is how I got to know Beesel through regional cooperation. Small but self-confident and averse to calimero behavior. Just look at how they are taking the lead in implementing the Environmental Act."
Click
'They' gradually becomes 'we' as the conversation progresses. Although the appointment is not yet official, Bob Vostermans already sees himself in the mayor's chair. The good feeling is mutual, just like the confidential committee, he speaks of an audible click during the job interviews. Beesel challenges you, was the approach. “I know the challenges, also within my own portfolio. Financially, the fat years are over. But also consider the quality of life in the centres. How do we keep our youth here?" Connector, approachable, people person. Bob Vostermans - he turns 38 today - resembles Petra Dassen in many ways, but above all he does not want to become a copy. "Petra has done a fantastic job. way, from my own gut feeling. Listening to people, to what is going on. Never hide behind policy and think that we as a government know best what is good for the citizen.
Dreamed successor
The nomination committee sees the former Veldenaar as the ideal successor. Beesel will have a mayor who is cheerful, likes to mingle with people, loves running and will therefore participate in the Long Course Weekend. He resolutely ignores the advice not to give out his 06 number too quickly. "Anyone can call me."
Positively stubborn, that is also what characterizes Vostermans as an alderman. But the inveterate positivo also has concerns. First of all, because of his young family, who had to deal with four moves within five years. “We want to get to Beesel as quickly as possible, but we want to get it right first time. I'm not going to rent something temporarily first." In addition, voice problems are bothering him. "I become hoarse more and more quickly. Nodules on the vocal cords are the cause, I have already been operated on twice. I have to learn to save my voice. It is difficult if you like to talk.”
Bob Vostermans is expected to be sworn in in the second half of January.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 3, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")