Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=New life for former Philips site: 'Recharge Remunj'
The Limburger
February 13, 2021 Saturday
VenloVenray


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 11
Length: 450 words
Byline: Gertie Driessen
Body


It's finally going to happen. The former Philips site in Roermond, also known as 'Yageo' after the last Taiwanese owner to whom Philips sold the complex in 2000, is being overhauled. The nine-hectare plot with many buildings on it is being revived after more than ten years. Or to stay in Philips terms: it is being recharged.
Recharge Remunj. Under this heading, the design agency Arcadis, engaged by developer Berend Matzinger, is busy drawing up a vision for the area. Politicians were briefed on this in a 'garden room session' on Tuesday. It is not clear why this had to be done behind closed doors. There is not much concrete to report at this time. Except that the environment is very closely involved in the planning process, in the spirit of the new Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2022. Seventy interested parties had registered for the first online session in November. Another 'environmental lab' for the entire neighborhood will take place in April, during which an initial concept vision will be presented. In the meantime, a sounding board group with 'ambassadors' from the neighborhood will sit at the table.
Heritage
The most important starting point for the neighborhood is the preservation of the heritage of Philips, where many Roermond residents have earned their living since the opening in 1946. The basis for the area vision therefore becomes the place itself. The industrial look of the buildings. The space and the greenery too, because Frits Philips was known as an employer with an eye for pleasant working conditions for his staff.
Precisely because the Yageo site is such a striking place right next to the city, Arcadis attaches not only to hard values, such as buildings, infrastructure or economic feasibility, but also to 'soft' values ​​such as history and the DNA of the place. That is why the agency collects stories from local residents as the first part of the participation process. Stories that will form the basis of the area vision. Such as the book '45 years with Philips', written by a former employee, which a local resident has already made available for inspiration.
Restaurant
To the delight of the neighborhood, Matzinger intends to preserve the current buildings and build homes there. By the way, it is yet another plan for the Yageo site. Previously there were plans for a new residential area and a craft business park. Both failed, reportedly at the price Yageo asked. Matzinger will officially become the new owner on April 1.
Sounding board group
The most important starting point for the neighborhood is the preservation of the heritage of Philips, where many Roermond residents have earned their living since the opening in 1946.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 12, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")