Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Just in time for the New Year: plans for 112 new houses in Soest
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 21, 2023 Thursday 04:52 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 284 words
Byline: Piet van Dijk
Body


Fifty apartments on Sweelinckstraat in Soest, 26 apartments with shops on Van Weedestraat and 36 homes on Ferdinand Huycklaan: the municipality of Soest will soon approve some plans at the end of the year.
The new Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1 and will change a lot in the approval process of building plans. That is why Soest has asked planners in recent weeks to submit their plan before New Year's Eve according to the current, less complicated procedure.
A four-storey apartment complex with fifty apartments is planned on Sweelinckstraat, of which 28 are social rentals and 22 are private sector rentals. They are operated by Cocon Wonen and are intended for seniors. The building will be located on the site of the Orlando building, which was demolished last year. This building was a socio-cultural center for many years; Before that it housed a secondary school.
A new building will be built on the Van Weedestraat on the corner of the Nassauplantsoen. There is now a former ABN Amro bank building there, where a temporary pop-up shop and cultural 'breeding ground' 't LOU-vre is located. This building will make way for a building with 26 apartments on three floors, including a shop plinth. There will also be a basement parking lot. The ATM returns.
On Ferdinand Huycklaan, on the corner with Kerkstraat, 36 homes will be built on the site of demolished construction companies. There will be two apartment buildings with 19 and 12 rental homes and 5 terraced houses. There will be 46 parking spaces, 19 of which are underground.
Follow AD Amersfoortse Courant now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.

Load Date: December 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")