Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=No Headline In Original
NRC
April 24, 2021 Saturday
1st Edition


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION & DEBATE; Page 10
Length: 725 words
Byline: Maarten de Sitter

Pauline Wiersema

C. Koomen

Dirk Zoebl

Jos Groenenboom
Body


Afghanistan
Not 'us' failure
Since the American decision to withdraw troops completely, followed by the same collective NATO decision, many articles have appeared with the gist that the mission of the US, the international community or 'the West' in Afghanistan is failing is. A major misconception that is constantly made is that it is 'our' (that is to say the Western) failure, and that 'we' have failed to establish peace in Afghanistan. This is a false image that does not do justice to our great efforts and the blood shed. It is primarily the internal Afghan tribal, geographical, religious and traditional divisions, partly fueled from within the region, that prevent the Afghans from making substantial progress. They cannot rise above this because the internal power structures (partly due to the actions of warlords, the Taliban and now also IS) are as they are. Indeed, 'we' have been able to do little to change that, but the Afghans themselves have achieved virtually no fundamental improvement so far.
Maarten de Sitter
Former NATO official
Relaxations
College on terrace
Good news! We will soon be able to spend time on a terrace with a beer in hand seven days a week. Students are getting a bad deal: in theory, one day of physical education a week, although most students will not get to see their campus at all this year. It is clear where the priorities of this outgoing cabinet lie. Economic interests invariably trump high-quality education and the mental health of tens of thousands of students. My proposal: from now on lectures and working groups on the terrace. Passers-by learn something from this and it is good for the catering industry. Perhaps we can hatch a plan there to finally give a boost to the education lobby, which appears to be ineffective. A little creative thinking would also be welcome, after more than a year of online education. Cheers.
Pauline Wiersema student
Hebron
Many deaths
The article In Hebron beats the heart of Israel's steady rightward movement (21/4) states that during the Second Intifada "many people died on both sides". But 85 percent of the deaths occurred on the Palestinian side. That is something different. then many deaths on both sides.
C. Koomen
Alkmaar
Demographics
Wishful thinking
When I was a student in Wageningen, most courses still offered a choice between Western and non-Western. This applied to plant cultivation, livestock farming, forestry, but also to economics and sociology. I never saw any hierarchy of values ​​in this; Advice and guidance for a nomadic livestock farmer simply required a different type of training than that for a native livestock farmer. The distinction has long been abandoned, I now read that CBS has also said goodbye to it, because of the "negative associations". Judging by the growing discomfort in the media, caused by the phenomenon of Lale Gül (Turkish-Dutch writer who rigorously opts for the West in her debut, with an unmistakable vilification of her non-Western background), this seems premature to me. Because there is a push in both left-wing and right-wing circles to rally 'right' behind her. , or to seriously attack her for that choice. Can I also see in that cancellation a form of hypocrisy and wishful thinking, a decision that lacks any sense of reality and integrity?
Dirk Zoebl
Utrecht
environmental code
Historical awareness
Another impending fiasco of the Environmental Act (NRC, 23/4). And the minister wants to continue to use the 'political momentum'. Saddling municipalities with an unenforceable law is therefore the choice that Ollongren makes. In 2015, the municipalities were given Youth Care, the Participation Act and the Social Support Act, despite warnings that municipalities could not take on these new tasks. The comparison between that transition and the introduction of the Environmental Act is becoming increasingly apparent. Ministers are very vocal about learning from the past. It is just a shame that there is always a new student at the helm without a sense of history.
Jos Groenenboom
Letters 4/24/2021
Economic interest wins over education
Link to PDF

Notes

Alkmaar; Utrecht

Load Date: April 23, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")