Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Understanding for concerns about the arrival of 140 migrant workers in Wagenberg, but there will be 'very good management'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 6, 2024 Tuesday 12:58 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 546 words
Byline: Paul Verlinden
Body


WAGENBERG - Initiator Kees Verhoef understands that there is unrest in the neighborhood about the plan to house 140 migrant workers in the Wagenberg polder. “But we are going to set it up in such a way that no one is bothered by it.”
Verhoef said this on Monday during a walk-in meeting at café Bij Bas in Wagenberg. There the plan was literally on the table to build a residential complex on the Thijssenweg (on the border with Hooge Zwaluwe) for a maximum of 140 international employees. The announcement of the project led to considerable unrest in the village last week.
At the end of Thijssenweg, three two-storey residential complexes have been drawn up between that road and the N285. There are a total of eighteen houses with eight rooms each. It will mainly house individual migrant workers, most of whom (will) work in the municipality of Drimmelen.
Ten years already
Initiator Verhoef is also the owner of various current buildings on the Thijssenweg, where approximately ninety people currently live in a state of unrest. Previously, migrant workers had been staying there for more than ten years.
"In all those years, no one has been bothered by it, partly because it is very well managed. This also happens at the new complex. There is management seven days a week, 24 hours a day,” says Verhoef. The intention is for the complex to be rented by a temporary employment agency, which will then accommodate employees there and provide supervision. The latter is done by two people (for example a married couple) who also live there.
No formal status
The plan does not yet have formal status. The meeting on Monday was intended to inform local residents and gather information that can be used in a permit application. The new Environmental Act came into effect this year and encourages initiators to involve stakeholders in their plans from the front.
Fitness center
 An estimated 150 people attended the meeting. Individually or in groups, they could ask questions to, among others, Lucien Jaakke, who acts as Verhoef's advisor. “There will be a sports field here,” Jaakke points out from the drawings, when someone asks how the migrant workers can keep themselves busy. “And further down the Thijssenweg there is a gym.”
When someone notes that more than ten percent of Wagenberg's population (2,200 people live in the village) will soon consist of temporary tenants, Jaakke can only answer in the affirmative. “But they are also people who go to the shops here and help maintain facilities.” He also points out that people now often rent regular houses, which are also suitable for starters and other home seekers.
Skewed ratio
A group of residents, who had already united last week and did not like the plan, did not change their minds after the meeting, a spokesperson said. They believe that the number of (labor) migrants is becoming so high that an imbalance is arising in the local community.
The concerned residents fear negative consequences such as (feelings of) insecurity, additional traffic nuisance and depreciation of houses. They have started a petition calling on the municipality of Drimmelen to reject the plans. The petition had been signed 385 times by early afternoon on Monday.

Load Date: April 19, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")