Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Oldenzaal scraps the flex housing plan and opts for forty permanent houses at two locations
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 21, 2023 Thursday 06:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 384 words
Byline: Engelbert Heideman
Body


No flexible housing, no fewer than forty permanent homes for one- and two-person households in Oldenzaal. The municipality wants to build this in collaboration with WBO Wonen at two locations: the former site of De Zeraam primary school on De Thij and on Molkenboerstraat in Zuid-Berghuizen.
This choice is a surprising turn in the battle against the shortage on the Oldenzaal housing market. After all, this must be partly resolved. During the political forum in September, there was a lot of criticism of the plans to build fifty flexible homes at the two aforementioned locations and at the Snijder on the Stakenbeek.
During the discussion at the time, it became clear that WBO is more fond of regular (prefab) homes than flexible homes. Moreover, the council was sent by the council to realize fifty flexible homes.
Now that this is not possible, the council is still making the move to permanent housing. According to councilor Rob Christenhusz, local residents are involved in the planning process, but it is certain that the council wants to build these homes more quickly. This gives both young and older one- and two-person households more opportunities on the housing market. This therefore concerns a total of forty homes for two locations: twenty on the Molkenboerstraat (site of the former Bernardus school) and twenty on the Van Hartenstraat (site of Zewindon). The Snijder no longer appears in the new plans.
Consult local residents
The houses are tailored to various target groups, the local community, citizen participation and the highest possible construction quality, according to the council. A specific construction program will be drawn up for each location after local residents have been consulted. The concrete plans will be further developed next year.
Rob Christenhusz presented the proposal regarding forty homes during the last press meeting of the year, and that was no coincidence. The new Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, 2024 and is thus conveniently circumvented. That is why the council also adopted the plans for the Mariakerk, the natural cemetery at Het Hulsbeek and the much-discussed Langestraat and Nieuwe Post plans, so that they still fall under current legislation. According to responsible councilor Rob Christenhusz, the new law still has a lot of uncertainty.

Load Date: December 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")