Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The environment remains flat for the time being
The Limburger
February 20, 2020 Thursday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: CHEMELOT; Page 8
Length: 488 words
Byline: Paul Dolhain
Body


The fact that Chemelot wants to become the safest, sustainable and most competitive chemical and materials site in Western Europe will often be received with applause. If this also creates 5,000 new jobs over the next ten years, it will be a major boost for the entire area. The Master Plan 2030 is a point on the horizon that local residents can discuss through a sounding board group. They help shape the plan, which, according to director Loek Radix, "is not set in granite".
The big question is how the plan will develop in the near future. Because if more activities take place somewhere, this will also have consequences for the immediate environment.
Behind the scenes, all neighborhood committees and neighborhood platforms are now considering what the consequences could be if this nuisance ends up on their doorstep. And then a neighborhood committee could simply turn into an action committee. Now that no one knows about the consequences, everyone keeps a low profile.
Storage
One of the big issues is: where will all the circular raw materials (plastic) be stored? It is clear that the processing of the materials will take place on the Chemelot site itself, but that the storage will move elsewhere. In Stein they are familiar with the odor and fly nuisance that this can cause, but such storage also leads to an increase in freight traffic.
This increase will affect everyone, as Chemelot expects a doubling in the next ten years. During the information evening for local residents last Tuesday, ideas were already put forward about electric trucks, but local residents would also prefer not to see a sustainable truck driving through their own street.
Port
In any case, it is certain that an increase in activities will take place in the port of Stein. Chemelot therefore initially wants to build a direct non-public connection for freight traffic and transport via pipes will grow. Since shipping traffic in the Juliana Canal is also being increased and this will also lead to more noise pollution, the Stein municipal council must agree to an extension of the Environmental Act.
Various committees elsewhere will also closely monitor developments. Because even though the Graetheide Committee showed on Tuesday evening that it was satisfied with the plan, the green area along the A2 is still a possible option for expansion. Chemelot is surrounded by residential areas almost everywhere, except on the north side.
Conversations
As long as the outcomes of the major issues are not yet clear, the discussions behind the scenes will take place in a pleasant atmosphere and the ambitious plan can be shaped. It is therefore important for Chemelot to ensure that the now like-minded ship continues to sail on the right course and not to lose sight of its sustainability ambitions.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 19, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")