Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental law hinders renovation of Tanthof water playground: almost half a million needed for new plans
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 25, 2024 Monday 11:45 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 299 words
Byline: Maurice Gispen
Body


The renovation of the Tanthof Water Playground will cost a total of more than half a million euros. They are already well on their way with financing. But to really complete the renovation, they still need 490,519 euros from the municipality of Delft.
The popular water playground at Tanthof petting zoo will have new walkways and a raft over the water this year. There will also be paved paths and merry-go-rounds specially designed for children in wheelchairs. Twelve funds and the province have already provided subsidies and Rabobank donated 10,000 euros. Yet that is not enough.
Due to the 'Environmental Act' that came into effect on January 1, the plans had to be changed. "The water playground had certain places where children - with a lot of effort - might just get their heads under water. This law allows this to happen more.” The intention is now that children only play over and with the water, not in the water. Nearly €500,000 still needs to be raised to implement new plans that are in line with this law.
Parties positive
Last Tuesday, Remmelt Thijs, chairman of the petting zoo, submitted a proposal with further plans for the renovation to the municipality. It looks positive for now. “We were overloaded with compliments about our location and all parties emphasized its importance.” Unfortunately, an official decision has not yet been made, that will be done on April 4.
The renovation has now started, thanks to the money that has been raised. If they also receive the desired subsidy from the municipality, they can implement all plans this year. When play can actually take place depends on the decision of the municipality and how quickly the grass grows. “The grass will soon be sown, but children will only be able to run on it once it has grown enough.”

Load Date: March 25, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")