Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental law that comes into effect next year puts a bomb under the plan for the rail terminal
The Gelderlander
October 25, 2023 Wednesday
Betuwe Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2
Length: 412 words
Byline: STEPHEN FRIEDRICHS
Highlight: Part of the Overbetuwe politicians want to do everything they can to prevent the arrival of the rail terminal at Reeth. The province of Gelderland hopes to be able to start the controversial project after the New Year.
Body


The knives have been sharpened, says Ard op de Weegh, chairman of BOB. From January 1, 2024, a new Environmental Act will apply, under which the municipality of Overbetuwe must issue the permit for the arrival of the rail terminal. This authority currently still lies with the province of Gelderland.

"And don't count on the municipal council in Overbetuwe simply agreeing to the granting of that permit," says Op de Weegh.

"Especially now that a report by environmental expert Cor Coenrady shows that the arrival of the rail terminal will be millions more expensive than budgeted. And then we're not even talking about other things, such as noise standards and nitrogen emissions."
Bump
It may be a new bump in the road for the Gelderland provincial government, which wants to start the construction of the rail terminal in the short term. The arrival of such a terminal (cost: at least 65 million euros) would relieve freight traffic on the highway between the port of Rotterdam and the German Ruhr area, the province argues. And that in turn contributes to a reduction in CO2 emissions.

However, things are not exactly going smoothly with the plans. For example, no operator has yet been found who wants to operate the terminal. The period to find an operator has now been extended twice by the province due to a lawsuit that is still pending before the Council of State.

There must be clarity about an operator by the end of December at the latest. Once they have reported, the province wants to start the first work at the beginning of 2024: felling trees.
A spanner in the works
PvdA member Elbert Elbers also notes that a new Environmental Act could throw a spanner in the works of the province's plans.

Elbers: "Then the Overbetuwe council must judge the permit. And how can you grant this after the entire municipal council has previously spoken out against the plans? It seems like quite a split to me."

At the same time, Elbers remains to see whether an operator will be found before the end of December. "The province has been putting up a smokescreen for months because of a procedure underway at the Council of State. However, I get the strong impression that they want to distract attention with this: if an interested party has been found who is enthusiastic, don't you want to shout it from the rooftops?"
Don't count on the city council simply agreeing to that permit
The province is putting up a smokescreen with the procedure before the Council of State

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: October 24, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")