Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Environmental Act: blessing or disaster?
The Limburger
March 16, 2022 Wednesday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: COLUMN; Page 59
Length: 664 words
Byline: Jan Kessels
Body


A few years ago, the House of Representatives, later approved by the Senate, accepted the new Environmental Act. The law that should replace several dozen laws that led to a lot of regulations. According to the new Environmental Act, an integrated assessment must be made so that all kinds of developments can be anticipated more quickly and with less regulation. It would be a boon for companies and citizens. Unfortunately... The reality is different. The law appears to be so complex that it is almost impossible to develop suitable and well-functioning computer programs to make the law workable. So the implementation has been postponed again until at least October 1 this year. Experts doubt its feasibility.
Environmental dialogue
In anticipation of the introduction of the law, various municipalities, including Venlo, are already using parts of that law, such as the so-called environmental dialogue. The aim is to encourage early participation of stakeholders in decision-making. Initiators of a particular development in the municipality, such as a large construction project, must then enter into discussions with local residents and stakeholders. If not, the execution can be stopped.
This is how the first problems arise:
1. An initiator buys a piece of land and asks the municipality if he can develop homes or businesses there. The council basically says yes or no to this. That process takes place out of sight of stakeholders, local residents and the council. It is also unclear on which criteria the assessment is carried out. That basic yes or no decision by the council should only be made after a dialogue with the council and third parties, with a clear story about what considerations have been made. Especially during major interventions. It also creates the opportunity to manage the expectations of the initiator;
2. The initiator provides information to a group of people whom he regards as interested parties. That is arbitrary, but it does meet the requirement set by the municipality. At the time this happens, based on the decision taken by the council, he is already busy preparing for the zoning plan (and later, under the Environmental Act, the amendment of the environmental plan);
3. Providing information alone is too limited. A dialogue involves sending and receiving. In situations where I have participated in an environmental dialogue, it was one-sided provision of information and persuasion, creating the impression that 'the pig has already been washed'.
Criteria
The environmental dialogue must therefore be provided with criteria:
· who the municipality designates as stakeholders after surveying council members, neighborhood councils, citizen initiatives in the neighborhood, etc.;
· indicate what is being tested: existing zoning, provincial environmental plan, municipal structural vision, etc., what that test entails and what considerations have been made;
· a report is made of the dialogue that is made available to participants;
· Based on the dialogue, the initiator and the municipality prepare a response in which all matters submitted by the stakeholders are weighed on the basis of which they give the initiator permission to start preparations. Stakeholders are told this. After this, a draft zoning plan (and later the draft amendment to the environmental plan) can be submitted and published or not.
If the municipality does not provide criteria at the start of the process and the environmental dialogue (to be determined by the council), this will lead to arbitrariness and mainly serve the interests of initiators and developers. Stakeholders will then be left behind.
Jan Kessels is a former councilor in Venlo and involved in social projects.
If the municipality does not provide criteria for the start of the process and the environmental dialogue, this will lead to arbitrariness and mainly serve the interests of initiators and developers.
Jan Kessels
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 15, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")