Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Budget built from scratch
The Limburger
November 4, 2020 Wednesday
HeerlenKL


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: NEW METHOD; Page 4
Length: 377 words
Byline: Frank Benneker
Body


In the past, the previous budget was always taken as the basis for the municipal budget of Heerlen. Roughly speaking: here and there the cheese slicer went over it, for some items a little more money was allocated. Starting in 2021, Heerlen will do things differently with zero-based budgeting: starting from scratch. "The summer memorandum showed that there was a deficit of ten million and that we had to intervene," says councilor Frank Simons (Finance, OPH). "In addition to a vacancy and hiring freeze, we are also talking about the budget took a different tack."
Limited
The scope for building a budget from scratch is limited. About 328 million euros is fixed, thanks to (employment) contracts, legal obligations and council decisions. “That leaves an amount of 72 million that we can control ourselves. Every euro from that part of the budget has been scrutinized." This resulted in a list of 220 cutback proposals. "After consultation with the mayor and aldermen, these were divided into three categories: agreement, discussion in the council and politically sensitive. In The latter category includes things such as social schemes and subsidies to associations."
Every councilor has therefore had to hand in a budget from his portfolio. "When I look at my own Spatial Planning portfolio, I think it is a shame that we have compromised on the Environmental Act, which will come into effect in 2022. We now meet the legal standards, but I would have liked to do more with that."
The corona crisis was an additional difficulty this year. Simons: “Although it wasn't too bad because we kept a corona budget from the start. It is clear what we get back, what is uncertain and what costs us money."
More difficult
Would the municipality's cost-cutting task have been more difficult if budgeting had been done in the old way? Simons: “I think so. Now we have overhauled everything. In the old methodology it would have been more difficult to get a picture of all items." The municipal council will debate the budget for 2021 today and tomorrow and will make a decision at the end of the deliberation.
'Discussions in lectures were not always the most fun, but they were conducted on substance'
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 3, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")