Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Controversial construction plan delayed
The Gelderlander
September 2, 2023 Saturday
Betuwe Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 440 words
Byline: JESSE REITH
Highlight: The much-discussed plan for 100 to 150 flexible homes in Haalderen has been delayed. Because investigations are running late, Lingewaard will not be able to apply for a permit this year.
Body


Postponed investigations delay construction of flexible housing in Haalderen
Jesse Reith

Haalderen

The possible arrival of temporary homes, intended for starters and status holders, among others, has been causing a stir in Haalderen since this spring. According to the municipality of Lingewaard, the 100 to 150 flex homes are desperately needed to do something about the housing shortage. The residents understand this, but they do not feel heard during the rollout of the plan. They also fear issues such as traffic nuisance and wonder whether it is wise to welcome so many new people into the village community (approximately 2,000 inhabitants).

At the end of May, hundreds of people attended a meeting about the plan. Emotions sometimes ran high there. One woman captured the sentiment poignantly: "Our village of Haalderen, I am really, really worried about it."

Initially, Lingewaard wanted to apply for an environmental permit for placing the homes before December 31 of this year. This now appears to be 'not feasible', according to the municipal council.

There are several reasons for this. For example, breeding birds have delayed research and archaeological work is taking more time than expected. Housing association Waardwonen also needs more time to purchase the flexible housing.

The consequence of the delay is that the Crisis and Recovery Act can no longer be applied to this project, which is what Lingewaard wanted. This is because the Environmental Act will come into effect from 1 January 2024, which will change the procedure for a permit.

Before the permit is applied for, Lingewaard checks whether a few aspects of the plan can be adjusted. "We have been given homework," says councilor Maarten van den Bos, looking back on the May meeting.

The council may want to add owner-occupied homes to the plan, instead of just rental properties. A study is also underway into a new access via De Hoek and the north of the village, so as not to further burden the center of Haalderen.

Haalderen has not been idle in recent months. A working group collected 847 signatures against the current plan with a petition. The petition will be given to the city council next week. Residents also held discussions with the political parties.

Van den Bos says he understands that residents have difficulty with the arrival of the district. "But what I do miss in the discussion is the fact that all polls show that the greatest concern is about too few affordable homes. That's why we just have to put our shoulders to the wheel."
We just have to put our shoulders to the wheel on this

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: September 1, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")