Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Mauritshaven transformation on the back burner
The Limburger
August 31, 2021 Tuesday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5
Length: 286 words
Byline: Rob Stikkelbroeck
Body


The realization of the Nautical Boulevard in Wessem will take longer. The clustering of service companies for water sports is now included as a 'dot on the horizon' in the new Environmental Vision.
It is still the wish of the municipality of Maasgouw to transform the Prins Mauritshaven in Wessem into a Nautical Boulevard where boat owners can go for maintenance of their vessel.
There are numerous companies and businesses scattered along the Central Limburg Maasplassen that would be eligible for relocation to the boulevard. Some successes have been achieved in recent years. For example, a machine builder at the Mauritshaven changed its business operations and now offers moorings and maintenance for pleasure craft.
However, the desired relocation of existing companies proves difficult in practice. On the one hand because there are few suitable locations and on the other hand because the companies do not want to leave the Mauritshaven. Discussions between the municipality and the companies, often focused on building materials and supplied via water, yielded little.
Nevertheless, in the meantime the municipality had a memorandum drawn up in preparation for adjusting the zoning plan for the port. The companies protested against this and the municipality turned out to be sensitive to this.
Maasgouw has therefore decided to reconsider the strategy and to respect the applicable zoning plan. Existing companies will not be relocated or reorganized. The plans for the Nautical Boulevard will be included in the new Environmental Vision that municipalities are required to draw up in the context of the future Environmental Act.
This means it remains possible to gradually create a service port.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 19, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")