Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Reversers' want to share fun, sustainable living
The Limburger
March 4, 2020 Wednesday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: MOVEMENT; Page 4
Length: 410 words
Byline: Gertie Driessen
Body


Sustainability. For many people the word has a negative connotation. Does it evoke associations with melting ice caps and floods. With wind turbines that no one wants in their backyard. With expensive investments and changes that we are all not looking forward to.
Roermond residents Trees van der Schoot (photo left), Floris Mokveld (middle) and Janneke Postulart (right) have had enough of all that negative reporting. They want to convey that sustainability can also be fun. That you can have fun by consciously dealing with your living environment. In the search for new ways that are less damaging to our planet.
That really doesn't mean that you suddenly have to change your life, the three emphasize. That you have to ditch the petrol car, become a vegetarian or urgently purchase solar panels and a heat pump.
"Everyone can contribute in their own way," says graphic designer Postulart, who regularly gives lectures on the impact of humans on the climate, nature and the environment. "We don't all have to find the same things important. pedantic fingers."
According to Van der Schoot, the tide is slowly turning and more and more people are choosing a more conscious life. We just don't know enough about each other yet. And many people don't know what is possible. Especially in Limburg, where, according to the trio, there are hardly any initiatives where like-minded people can meet and learn from each other. When it comes to sustainability, Limburg is lagging behind in all respects," says Van der Schoot, who, as a Spatial Planning lawyer, provides information about the new Environmental Act in many municipalities. Mokveld, who has turned his hobby into a profession with his sustainability consultancy firm. recently took part in the national sustainability route with his virtually energy-neutral 1930s home, where people opened their homes: "I was the only one in the whole of Central Limburg."
To get the subject on the map here too, 'De Omwentelaars' were born. Tomorrow evening at eight o'clock the kick-off is in the Graasj, where monthly follow-up meetings take place. Ideas are exchanged and examples are shared via the website of the same name. For the time being, they are three people strong, but if it is up to the people of Roermond, their initiative will grow into a network of people who want to work on sustainability in any way. As long as it's positive.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 3, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")