Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Entrepreneurs in Veen want a larger business park: 'Relocation is not possible and requires a huge investment'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 15, 2023 Wednesday 04:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 329 words
Byline: Teus van Tilborg
Body


VEEN - A number of entrepreneurs on the south side of the Veensesteeg in Veen have submitted a plan to the municipality to expand the business park. They ask the municipal council to take this into account in the Environmental Vision 2040, which will soon be adopted.
Altena has been preparing the vision required under the Environmental Act for some time, which will come into effect on January 1. The vision shows in broad terms how the municipality wants to organize the living environment in a good way. Anyone with plans and initiatives can then see whether they have a chance of success. Whether they conflict with the values ​​that the municipality wants to protect.
Last year, the draft of the vision was presented and everyone could respond to it. Eleven people and organizations did the same. This includes the Veen entrepreneurs. During the Altenaronde, John van den Berg, their spokesperson, explained their plan. According to him, the entrepreneurs have the idea to expand the business premises on the Veensesteeg and the Weerakkers on the south side. The land required for this is often their property.
Relocation not an option
Many of the entrepreneurs need to expand their business, but that is not possible now. “It is very important that entrepreneurs do not become locked down,” Van den Berg emphasized. “Relocation is not possible and requires a huge investment.”
If the desired expansion is realized, this will also offer opportunities for the establishment of new companies, according to Van den Berg. Especially if, as intended, an additional access road is constructed on the south side. “That is our preference.”
The entrepreneurs see opportunities to improve the transition to the rural area by incorporating greenery into the business park. Councilor Shah Sheikkariem (AltenaLokaal) indicated that he saw room for expansion in Veen, but not yet how much and where.
Politics will continue to discuss the Environmental Vision in the coming weeks.

Load Date: November 15, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")