Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Entrepreneurs need to be helped quickly
The Gelderlander
September 14, 2013 Saturday


Copyright 2013 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: 3_OPINION
Length: 498 words
Body


The owner of MCD in Beesd has been waiting for five years for a decision from politicians to allow him to expand. Entrepreneurs often spend a long time in the waiting room. Especially in these bad economic times, directors must make decisions quickly and not discuss for too long. Or not? The proposition:
Piet van Loosbroek (67), Ravenswaaij, architect - 'Unbelievable!' - Hans van der Jagt (56), Kesteren, work planner in sheltered employment - 'Quick clarity' - Roef van Waarden (76), Ophemert, fruit grower - Lineke van Oort (43), Geldermalsen, owner of a children's clothing store - readers' panel - 'Different but illegal? ' - 'It can no longer be this way'

 "Everyone can imagine that it is really unworkable if you, as an entrepreneur, have to wait so long for permit applications. A side effect is that the bolder entrepreneurs just go about their business and afterwards, when the municipality shows up on their doorstep, they scream bloody murder. and then usually still legalized. They have already received the expansion and the associated higher income. In fact, this is the only way to be able to do business decisively. This is a very undesirable situation of course."
 "5 years! I find it inconceivable that it should take that long. If you as an entrepreneur remain stagnant, your customers will leave for companies that are growing. Especially in these difficult times for many entrepreneurs, you have to decide quickly, make decisions and say yes or no It is great that an entrepreneur dares to take risks in these times, provides additional jobs and provides a facility for the community. As a municipality, you must encourage this as soon as possible, if not at this location others. That expansion of the MCD should have been there a long time ago."
 "This is a topic that all entrepreneurs have to deal with, if they want something. This week I sat in a meeting next to a young entrepreneur, who complained that everything takes such a long time if you want to do something. I am already experiencing this for years. No decisions are made at municipalities and the province. It seems as if everything has to be made difficult. An entrepreneur wants to continue, now has money to invest and wants to see a quick return and turnover. The way things are going now, it really can't continue."
 "Especially in economically difficult times, entrepreneurs must quickly receive clarity from municipalities as to whether their plans fit in with our new environmental law. An entrepreneur must substantiate his request in principle with adequate information. Waiting five years in uncertainty for an application is unbusinesslike and unwise, after a maximum of If you decide six months to look for a suitable location elsewhere, you can invest anywhere. Our zoning plans were not written for these turbulent times, they cannot respond to the rapidly changing needs of the digital society."

Load Date: September 13, 2013, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")