Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Entrepreneurs go to court against emergency shelter in Epe: 'Damage must be compensated'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 27, 2024 Wednesday 04:09 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 455 words
Byline: Gep Leeflang
Body


In addition to local residents, entrepreneurs in Epe are also conducting emergency proceedings in court on Thursday against the emergency shelter for asylum seekers that was put into use in the Fletcher hotel last week. Both parties want the permit to be suspended and the asylum seekers to leave. For entrepreneurs, this is the prelude to a claim for damages.
When the municipality granted that permit last week, it turned out that the COA would start using the emergency shelter, with a maximum of 276 asylum seekers, the next day. Local residents, united in the Epe-Noord Collective, tried to get a suspension done in the evening. However, the judge will not have time to weigh the arguments until tomorrow.
In addition to the 67 households that went to court, entrepreneurs also have reason to request a suspension, says lawyer Coert Kelkes. According to him, it is already clear that emergency shelter has negative consequences for them.
During tomorrow's combined hearing, they will ask the judge to make a 'provisional measure' by granting the suspension. The next step for entrepreneurs is to start a substantive case to receive compensation for the damage incurred.
He is conducting the lawsuit on behalf of three entrepreneurs, says Kelkes. Others may join in later. “The municipality of Epe seems to estimate that there are no negative financial consequences,” says the lawyer. “But they certainly exist.”
Due to the municipality's decision, the hotel is no longer open, he explains, while it is an important part of the local economy where hotel guests visit restaurants and make purchases in the shops in the village. They are now missing turnover. Other companies depend on the hotel to accommodate business relations. That option is now gone.
"Since the introduction of the Environmental Act, it has been possible to claim 'disadvantage compensation'," says Kelkes, "if a decision by the municipality has caused damage. I have already informed the municipality that I will do this for these entrepreneurs."
In the millions
The impact of such a claim for damages could be very significant, he warns, if local residents also submit a claim due to the consequences for the value and marketability of their home. That could run into millions, he thinks. However, there are no judicial decisions on this yet that can indicate whether claims for damages are likely. The Environmental Act only came into effect on January 1.
The fact that emergency shelter is in use does not mean that their request for suspension is hopeless, Kelkes thinks. "The preliminary relief judge did not have time to consider it and did not want people to be on the street as a result. If he decides to suspend, the asylum seekers will still have to leave again. COA and the municipality of Epe know that."

Load Date: March 27, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")