Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Unrest among residents of industrial estates
The Gelderlander
July 29, 2015 Wednesday
Betuwe


Copyright 2015 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: BE
Length: 407 words
Body


Ban on civilian occupancy - From 2018 onwards, the municipality is obliged to evict residents who have no link with a company.
 GENDT/BEMMEL - There is unrest at the Gendt-Bemmel industrial estate, now that the municipality no longer wants to allow civilian habitation there and has announced that it will enforce it from 2018. For many of the 24 residents who received a letter, it is unclear what this means for them.
 This is evident from a tour of the Gendt-Bemmel industrial estate, but the concern will be no different on other industrial estates. Three residents of the Houtakker in Bemmel and nineteen at Pannenhuis in Huissen are in the same situation. The municipality still wants to discuss their individual situation and options with them, but there is now confusion. Am I the exception or will I have a house that I can no longer live in after 2018?, many wonder. The municipality was unable to address these concerns at an information evening in mid-July. There was mainly discussion about enforcement.
 Although the swell is understandable, the municipality has little choice, says Liane ter Maat, spokesperson for the VNG. "Under the Wabo and the Spatial Planning Act, a resident of an industrial estate must have a link with a company." The municipality must draw up an environmental plan for the new environmental law that will come into effect on January 1, 2018. Now that Lingewaard is drawing up new zoning plans for 2023, now is the time to get everything in order.
 In addition, the municipality already decided in 2004 that living on industrial estates is not allowed. And there is another reason. The municipality fears 'gigantic' damage claims if companies that are still hampered in their business operations cannot expand because citizens live there.
 However, exceptions can be made, the VNG also says. The municipal council will have to have good arguments for this. That is why the municipality first wants to talk to residents. "Because putting people on the street is not our intention," says councilor Theo Janssen.
 There is a glimmer of hope. Several national political parties and employers' organization VNO-NCW advocated a scheme similar to that for rural housing in the new law in 2018. This law makes it possible for civilians to live on a farm, despite environmental legislation, if the house once belonged to the farm. The right to protection against the environmental consequences of the agricultural business is then given up. This could also be possible on industrial estates.

Load Date: July 28, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")