Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Even after years of preparation, doubts about the introduction of the Environmental Act: 'Operation that has a lot of impact'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 27, 2023 Wednesday 01:59 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 429 words
Byline: Regional editorial
Body


Provinces, municipalities, water boards, environmental services: they all look forward with an uncertain feeling to January 1, 2024, the day that the new Environmental Act comes into effect. Somewhat jokingly they compare it to the millennium bug, the fear that existed in the run-up to the turn of the century (from 1999 to 2000) about crashing computer systems.
 “It is an operation that has a lot of impact,” says Jan Roest, Environmental Act program manager at the province of South Holland. “We have done it step by step and we still have to continue developing in the coming years.”
The Environmental Act bundles 26 laws and dozens of spatial planning regulations, which should make it easier, for example, to apply for a permit for something. The law was passed back in 2016. However, the introduction was postponed several times, partly due to its complexity, the corona crisis and IT problems. At the beginning of this year, the Senate agreed to the introduction of the Environmental Act on January 1, 2024.
However, the doubts and concerns have not gone away yet. Various governments recently called for the introduction to be postponed again, but outgoing minister Hugo de Jonge has stuck to the agreed date. It is certain, according to all parties involved, that the Environmental Act will face teething problems. And they are convinced that the system will need to be further developed in the coming years. As a precaution, the province of Overijssel has set up a first aid team: First Aid for Environmental Law Problems. There are particular concerns about the Digital System for the Environment Act (DSO), which is said to be complex, not user-friendly enough and insufficiently tested.
Anyone who needs a permit for something from January 1 will have to fill in everything via a question tree in the new Environment Desk. All necessary data for this come from the DSO, which from now on brings together all national and local regulations in the field of spatial planning. This should provide insight into which rules apply in a particular area. Linking and coordinating all the different rules and systems of various governments, which must correspond with each other, appears to be a difficult task in the run-up to January 1.
According to Minister De Jonge, the major advantage of the Environmental Act is that from now on all issues are no longer viewed per sector, but in context. “This area-oriented, integrated approach is desperately needed for the major challenges we face in the areas of housing construction, sustainability of energy, infrastructure, agriculture and nature.”

Load Date: December 27, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")