Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Solution 1:
The Gelderlander
April 3, 2021 Saturday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Z De Gelderlander; Page 4
Length: 1093 words
Highlight: dg.nl/toekomstgemeenten
Body


Help, the community is drowning
What's the problem?
Important issues that were previously decided locally by a municipal council (from spatial planning to welfare; from healthcare to economic development) are increasingly being tackled by a multitude of regional authorities. The only problem is: what is the region actually? The region does not exist in our democratic system. There are no elections for regional directors.

It is mainly the national government that forces municipalities to collaborate regionally. The government is increasingly consciously choosing to do business exclusively with regions rather than with municipalities. Important current examples of this are the energy transition, the nitrogen dossier, the housing construction task, the future of agriculture, climate adaptation, mobility and not to mention the heavy burden of the new Environmental Act.

What makes it extra complicated is that ministries, when it suits them, haphazardly create regions themselves for problems they are facing. The region for the energy transition could easily be different from that for labor market policy, water management or youth care. "Municipalities are not intended to be the implementation desk for The Hague's ambitions," says Marcel Boogers, professor of innovation and regional governance at the University of Twente.

"The new tasks do not fit the scale of many municipalities," says Allers.
Merge
For a long time, these types of problems were solved by reorganizations, whether imposed or not, with hundreds of municipalities disappearing from the scene. Then the strange situation arises in which the government transfers tasks to municipalities because they are closer to residents and municipalities are expected to apply the human touch, while large, opaque partnerships and larger municipalities, with greater distance to citizens, are then necessary. to be able to get the job done.

Yet this problem hardly plays a role in politics in The Hague. No attention was paid to this in the election manifestos. "The parties are watching out," says Klaartje Peters, professor of local and regional government. "If you, as party leader, make a fuss about this, you immediately antagonize fellow party members in provincial and municipal governments and then you have a problem. The past has taught us that. That does not mean that nothing can be done. The urgency to tackle this is felt much more than ever before."

Many reports point in the same direction: larger municipalities and/or official regions, with their own administrative layer. Six years ago, research agency Atlas for municipalities mapped out what it means if you adjust the administrative boundaries to the work that needs to be done. The researchers arrived at 57 regional municipalities. These cut through existing provincial and municipal boundaries.

That seems quite extreme, 57 municipalities compared to 352 now. The Association of Dutch Municipalities went much further. This came in 2010 in the discussion document Thorbecke 2.0 to a maximum of 35 municipalities (each with about 500,000 inhabitants) and the abolition of provinces and water boards. 'This is the only way to create strong municipalities that can fulfill their role as the first government.' The members didn't like it at all and shot down the plan.
Solution 2:
New administrative layer
In the meantime, the idea of ​​looking at the Germany method, with so-called 'kreisen', an official layer between province and municipalities, is gaining ground. In the Netherlands these could be federation municipalities. Smaller municipalities will then continue to exist and carry out a well-defined package of tasks. The rest is then done by the federation. A bit like Europe determines an increasing share of the rules and laws for the Netherlands.

Special elections should be held for the Federation Council. So a fourth layer of government, and then officially. What is striking: if you sweep together the many partnerships of municipalities that have already emerged on a map, approximately thirty coherent regions come into view.

“The new cabinet has to get to work on it. Municipalities are too small and provinces too big," says Professor Boogers. "If I were a minister, I would appoint a state committee and initiate a broad social discussion about a different administrative division of the Netherlands. Companies, healthcare organizations and schools also need to be at the table. Then you break away from directors who think about their own careers. A breakthrough must be forced. The administrative suffering is great. Sooner or later this will affect citizens, who are dependent on the services of municipalities. Look at the waiting lists in youth care. Are citizens still being served well? It can be done better and more effectively.”

Peters would opt for the formation of 25 to 35 regions with their own government and their own elections. "These regions must then connect to work areas of labor market provision, GGDs, safety regions, youth care and so on. What we have now is no longer correct. Everything that really matters is on a scale higher than what the city council is about. It is a structural error, but everyone shies away from the logical consequence. Because all kinds of interests are affected: of the province (administrators), of the municipal administrators."
Solution 3:
More province
Allers wants to make better use of the provinces and stop the decline in the number of municipalities. Peters: “We are the only country in the world that is constantly reorganizing. That causes so much unrest. If things continue at this pace, there will be one municipality left in 2051. The value of municipalities is seriously underestimated. It is about much more than just local government. Also about things like social cohesion. A place where people feel connected to each other. But that is more difficult to express in money.”

Allers does not want a fourth layer of government. “Let the municipalities do what they can do and transfer the other tasks to the province. Make better use of that administrative layer. Then democratic control is immediately arranged. You can vote for the provincial government.”

He doesn't expect it to happen. “The government must impose something if something really wants to change. The government does not dare to do that, afraid of causing trouble. If things go wrong now, it is not the government's fault. There are now so many people responsible that ultimately no one can be held responsible, as in the benefits affair. Moreover, in the Netherlands we are very good at pretending that everything is well organised."

Would you like to respond? Write to research@gelderlander.nl

Take part in our poll about the future of the municipality:

View the original page: page 4

Load Date: April 2, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")