Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Opposition wants control over controversial asylum center in Oldebroek, but does that make a difference? 'Matter of principle'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 12, 2024 Friday 06:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 730 words
Byline: Gep Leeflang
Body


Does it matter whether the Oldebroek municipal council gets a say in the controversial arrival of an asylum seekers' center? A proposal to this effect from two opposition parties will be put to the vote next week. Despite harsh criticism from both parties on the course taken by Mayor Tanja Haseloop-Amsing, she and her aldermen do not comment on it.
ABO and CVO have been at odds with Haseloop since it became known that the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (COA) wants to open an asylum seeker center on the site of a former youth hostel on the border with 't Harde. They are adamantly against this and there is massive resistance among local residents. They accuse Haseloop of slavishly going along with COA's plans.
ABO has now submitted an initiative proposal with the support of CVO. If they manage to get a council majority behind this - with seven of the nineteen seats they are in a minority - Haseloop will be in conflict. But what does that mean?
Things have changed since the introduction of the Environmental Act at the beginning of this year. Previously, the Municipal Executive was authorized to agree to developments in deviation from the zoning plan via a so-called 'crumbly case scheme'. The municipal council did discuss zoning plans, but not such deviations. Under the new law, the council can also grant a permit in some cases in deviation from the environmental plan, without asking the council for advice.
The proposed asylum center on the Bovendwarsweg is an example of this. It is not on the list of cases where the council must first ask what the council thinks about it. If an asylum seekers' center is located within existing buildings, for a maximum of ten years, the council can decide independently. That list needs to be adjusted, according to ABO and CVO.
Binding
What is the consequence if that happens? Then the realization of an asylum seekers' center will from now on fall under the 'advisory right' of the council. And once the council uses this, it is not without obligation. Unlike when the independent objections committee issues advice on objections submitted against a granted permit. The council may ignore such advice (although in most cases it is followed). But the council's advice is binding.
Suppose the council decides next week that asylum seeker centers will be added to 'the list'. Can the council simply cancel the plan by issuing negative advice if the council wants to give the green light? It's not that simple. It is true that the council must then follow the advice of the council and therefore refuse the requested permit. But the last word has not yet been said about it. The applicant can challenge this by going to court.
Sentiment
From that moment on it is only about the content and not about sentiment. The judge will then assess whether the rejection was made on the right grounds and whether a majority of council members simply do not want it does not matter. It then revolves entirely around the 'spatial substantiation'. The council must thoroughly substantiate its advice. If the advice is not based on the correct legal arguments, the judge will annul the decision.
In fact, there is no difference between this and when the council does not get involved and leaves it to the mayor and aldermen. If they make a decision that is not well substantiated, it will not stand up in court either.
Politics
The right to be consulted is therefore not a political instrument to hold the council accountable, B and W suggest to the council. It is only about the spatial consideration of whether functions (use as an asylum seekers' center in this case) are allocated to a location in a 'balanced' manner.
With this information in addition, the council says it will not express any 'wishes or reservations'. "The municipal council will have to make its own decision," the council says, and the decision whether the council wants advisory rights on this is "highly political in nature."
Matter of principle
It is mainly a matter of principle, says ABO faction chairman Ton Heddema in response. "This is so important that the council - the highest, democratically elected body within the municipality - speaks out on this," he says.
Even though the outcome is the same? "Arguments regarding, for example, traffic nuisance and crime can be weighed in different ways: how bad is bad?" He thinks that the balance could be different for the council than for the council.

Load Date: April 12, 2024, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")