Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=On rations
The Limburger
April 7, 2020 Tuesday
entire editionVenloVenrayRoermondWTMaastrichtSittard-GeleenHeerlenKL


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: COMMENTS; Page 44
Length: 380 words
Body


Under pressure everything becomes fluid, even democracy. Now that the corona crisis is demanding all the attention, even our parliament has temporarily put itself on rations. The agenda has been cleared, debates have been suspended. MPs only meet once or twice a week to debate how to tackle the virus outbreak. All very understandable. There is no other way now.
But even in this most serious crisis outside of wartime, political opportunism lurks dangerously. The corona crisis thus provides a perfect excuse to avoid losing political face. For example, our aviation minister has postponed the controversial opening of Lelystad Airport for the umpteenth time, now with the argument that there will be no flying for the time being due to the virus. Only in the margins is it mentioned that incorrect nitrogen calculations also force her to press the pause button. Our environment minister has postponed the introduction of the new environmental law, also to avoid unnecessarily burdening local authorities during this corona time. It is not said that introduction was now impossible anyway due to insurmountable IT problems. It can also be the other way around, as our transport minister proves. This reports a setback of one billion euros in the tunneling of the Amsterdam Zuidas. Less than a month ago this would have caused quite a stir in the Binnenhof, but now no one crows about it. The corona crisis is crowding out all other news. The cabinet as a whole is also using the crisis to push no fewer than 84 bills through parliament before the summer. Supposedly because they are said to be urgent, but that sounds very theatrical and lazy. Thiery Baudet of FvD protested against this robbery tactic, but was unable to gain support from his colleagues. The fight against the crisis now takes precedence and so the vast majority of parliament accepts its own lockdown. This is only acceptable if this state of emergency does not last longer than is strictly necessary and not a second longer. Because our democracy is too great an asset to be lightly exposed to too much government power.
The commentary expresses the opinion of
De Limburger about important news events
in Limburg and the world.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 6, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")