Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Call: start reconstruction quickly
The Limburger
January 21, 2021 Thursday
Maastricht


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 605 words
Byline: Pascale Thewissen
Body


Passing freight traffic and motorists who do not adhere to the speed limit of 50 kilometers per hour. The result: vibrations, sound and noise pollution and an unpleasant living environment.
The Tongerseweg - one of the important entrance and exit roads to the city - has been causing the municipality of Maastricht headaches for decades. But if all goes well, the first spade can be dug this summer. "There is a reconstruction plan that will benefit everyone who lives on Tongerseweg or in one of the side streets," says councilor Gert-Jan Krabbendam (GroenLinks, Mobility). However, not everyone is entirely happy with the plans. One essential part is lacking, say the opponents. Namely: a truck ban.
Maastricht - in consultation with the Belgian neighboring municipalities - does not want to go that far. A truck ban on the Tongerseweg could cause a waterbed effect on other access routes to the city. Moreover, heavy traffic - garbage trucks, buses, trucks bound for Maastricht and agricultural vehicles - can never be completely banned from the route between the city center and the Belgian border municipality of Riemst.
But the Tongerseweg Veilig Association does not want to give in and has gone to court. The case will be heard in April. "Contrary to what the municipality claims, we cannot see the reconstruction separately from the truck ban. One is inextricably linked to the other," says the Tongerseweg Veilig Association. She talks about a missed opportunity. "If there is no truck ban, this reconstruction is the best we can get. But it solves the problems - the nuisance and the insecurity - not on."
Subsidy
Maastricht is not waiting for the lawsuit. It is hoped that objection procedures will be omitted so that work can start before the construction holiday. This is necessary if the municipality does not want to miss out on a government subsidy of 478,000 euros. That amount will only be released if the project - the subsidy specifically concerns the construction of the cycle paths, but they are located along the entire route - is completed this year.
"That is also possible," says Krabbendam. "After all, the reconstruction plan was drawn up after an intensive participation process. With a view to the Environmental Act, we let people participate in the discussion and adjusted our plans accordingly. We have taken their wishes and concerns into account. the future developments. The new route is designed based on the STOP principle. These were important questions a number of variants emerged, which we presented to the residents. That resulted in this compromise that many people are satisfied with."
Counterbalance
Residents Marcel Thijssens and Ron Pepels of the Tongerseweg confirm this. They decided to knock on doors with a petition to counteract the negative criticism. A total of 67 residents and entrepreneurs signed the document. "We believe that this is the majority of the people who live on the road," say Thijssens and Pepels, who presented the signatures to mayor Annemarie Penn-te Strake yesterday morning. "We want to send a positive signal to the city council. The message: We have worked well together, we are satisfied and want the work to start as soon as possible. Rather yesterday than today."
Reconstruction of five million euros
We are satisfied and want the work to start as soon as possible. Better yesterday than today.
Marcel Thijssens and Ron Pepels
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 20, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")