Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Reception of asylum seekers in Lopik remains uncertain, research into the location will continue for several months
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 21, 2023 Thursday 11:39 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 654 words
Byline: Karin Verhoef
Body


For the time being, there is no clarity about the possible reception of asylum seekers at the former MOB complex Lopik. The COA and the province of Utrecht think they will need a few more months to conduct their investigation into the suitability of the location.
"It is reported that the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (COA) is now investigating two options: housing an asylum seekers' center within the existing buildings, or new construction," said spokesperson Patricia Schalkwijk on behalf of deputy Rob van Muilekom.
“In addition, the COA may not only view this location as a location for asylum reception, but may view it as a satellite location and therefore wish to accommodate more facilities on this site. The type and duration of the possible asylum reception function will be determined at a later date, in consultation between the municipality of Lopik and the COA.”
Network of reception locations
COA spokesperson Arjen Zegers: “We are trying to create a network of reception locations in the province. Small-scale locations without facilities are linked to another location that does have them, so that residents can go there for help. This way, shelters can work together and jointly use, for example, a general practitioner, dentist or psychological help.”
Traffic management and the protected status of nature on the site are some of the stumbling blocks that COA and the province encounter. According to the province, the site is outside the 'urban area' of the center of Lopik.
“According to our Environmental Regulations, no increase or expansion of urban functions may take place in rural areas, unless an exception has been specifically stated,” said spokeswoman Schalkwijk on behalf of the province. “Living, even if temporary or if it concerns asylum reception, is such an urban function.”
Living in ammunition bunkers
In April this year, the COA informed the municipality of Lopik that it wanted to investigate whether the former MOB complex Lopik, on the N210 next to the De Copen business park in Lopik, could serve as a location for the reception of asylum seekers. For this purpose, the former ammunition bunkers - where flexible housing is now stored - should be made suitable for habitation. The bunkers are hidden in forests, which are part of the protected Nature Network Netherlands (NNN). The site belongs to the National Real Estate Agency.
The province says about urban functions: “There are already many smaller and larger urban functions in rural areas, such as homes and businesses. Existing urban functions may be replaced by others, but only if this does not intensify the development and use on the site and does not increase the influence on the environment, such as traffic and landscape.”
On this basis, reuse of the existing buildings for (temporary) residence is possible, the provincial spokeswoman concludes. “But the intensity of the intended use can be limited.”
The province says it can grant an exemption 'under conditions' for building outside an existing urban area: "Sometimes this is used if a specific situation gives reason to do so."
Protected nature area
The status as a protected nature reserve places restrictions on use, Schalkwijk adds. “The natural values ​​on the site must not be affected and the NNN must not become smaller or its function impaired.
In addition, protected species may occur that are protected under the Nature Conservation Act - with effect from 1 January, the Environmental Act. Nature research is therefore needed, both into the existing natural values ​​and into the negative effects on nature of the intended use as an asylum seeker center.”
Follow AD Utrecht Nieuwsblad now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.

Load Date: December 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")