Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Ovens for building materials partly on pilot flame; Manufacturer inventories are piling up
The Limburger
November 7, 2023 Tuesday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: DELAY; Page 39
Length: 687 words
Body


Construction slows down. The ovens of Limburg manufacturers of bricks, roof tiles, glass and insulation materials are also partly on or off the pilot light. "Ultimately this will affect the entire chain, up to and including the carpet layer."
Building materials manufacturer Wienerberger has been feeling the decline in new construction projects and partly renovation construction for some time. Sales of bricks and roof tiles have fallen significantly. Already in the summer, energy-intensive production in the seventeen Dutch brick factories was reduced by at least 10 percent. Employees were temporarily housed elsewhere.
Of the four Wienerberger factories in Limburg, only the Janssen-Dings factory in Tegelen is still running normally, according to a spokesperson. Narvik Tegelen will close for three months around Christmas, while the factory in Brunssum will carefully restart after a three-month production stop. The factory in Thorn operates at a reduced pace. Roof tile factory BMI Monier in Tegelen had been producing at half capacity for several months and, according to insiders, is now completely shut down. The company itself said yesterday that it could not respond.
Projects on hold
Brick factories and manufacturers of roof tiles can hardly store their stocks. "Their outdoor storage - the 'bag fields' - is increasingly full, because construction projects and thus orders are put on hold or even cancelled," explains Ewald van Hal of the trade association for construction ceramics (KNB).
Van Hal predicts a small construction depression in the coming years. The main culprits of the construction delay are well known: rising material and labor costs, high energy prices, nitrogen blockages and, above all, slow permitting. Project developers experience that new-build homes are more difficult to sell. Consumer confidence is waning due to rising mortgage interest rates and increased construction costs.
In addition, the Environmental Act will change as of January 1. This will become stricter when it comes to the supply and removal of materials, safety and quality.
"An emphatic point of concern is the staff," says Van Hal. "The workforce has never become as large as before the 2012 crisis, while an unprecedented construction task awaits. The longer the construction slump lasts, the more teams fall apart." Together with other trade associations, he is an advocate of a possible part-time unemployment benefit. “Reducing working hours is not yet necessary, but we will see where this goes. We must prevent staff from leaving and not returning."
Work inventory
There is not gloom everywhere in construction. These are boom times for installation companies, for example. However, they only come into action around the completion of homes. Project developers, designers and architects, on the other hand, have seen their workload decrease for some time.
"Last year, sales of building materials were still good. Now the order flow is moderate and I expect that we will go through a trough before 2024. If construction comes to a standstill, this will have major consequences for BV Nederland," warns Van Hal. "Construction is the engine of our economy. For every euro spent, there are three euros spent elsewhere, up to and including carpet fitter."
The brick industry is also issuing a cry for help about the green tax plan. The increase in energy tax proposed by the cabinet makes building materials much more expensive. As of January 1, 2025, the plan is for the gas tax exemption to be abolished in one go. "The measures are intended to stimulate Dutch industry to produce greener, but can have major consequences for building materials producers," said Van Hal.
Natural gas
“The production of building materials such as brick is still highly dependent on natural gas. As long as there is insufficient green energy - green electricity, biogas or hydrogen - available, we will need natural gas. What you will see is that, due to the regulations here, building materials will increasingly come from abroad. Self-sufficiency in the Netherlands is declining sharply. The question is whether we want to become dependent on abroad in the future."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 6, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")