Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Overbetuwe postpones wind turbine decision: no turbines yet on the south side of the A15
The Gelderlander
February 23, 2022 Wednesday
Rivierenland Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 463 words
Byline: BERNARDO VAN HAL
Body


The plans for wind turbines on the south side of the A15 between Dodewaard, Andelst and Zetten are being 'parked' for the time being. The municipality of Overbetuwe first wants to decide whether it will draw up its own rules or whether it will wait for national rules for wind turbines. They will probably be available from June.

Bernardo Van Hal

Zetten/Dodewaard/Andelst

The municipality of Neder-Betuwe informed Betuwemolen, which wants to install four wind turbines on the south side of the highway. At the beginning of January, Betuwemolen asked both municipalities for priority for the plans, because they are less sensitive than the proposal to build three or four wind turbines on the north side. After all, they will be much closer to the built-up area of ​​Zetten.

Neder-Betuwe has now provided a written answer and is crystal clear: nothing will happen as long as the neighboring municipality of Overbetuwe is still studying regulations and alternatives. 'Only then will both municipalities and both initiators discuss whether there is still sufficient reason to continue with the turbine plans.'

This means that no progress on the wind turbines can be expected for either the north or south side of the highway in the coming months. After all, Overbetuwe politicians need that time to calculate whether alternatives are feasible. The municipality also wants to know what the consequences of its own rules and standards would be and what the consequences are of waiting for national standards.

Citizens' Interests Overbetuwe (BOB), together with the CDA, took the initiative to torpedo the plan for the realization of eight to ten wind turbines. BOB councilor Aad Noordermeer suspects that decision-making will take place just before the summer. "The central government is now conducting various studies into nuisance and health together with the RIVM and the GGDs. I think they will be on the table in a month or two and we can get started with them."

As far as Noordermeer is concerned, we will not wait until the national government has adopted new regulations. It may take until the end of this year before the House of Representatives has hammered this out, he says. "And you should not leave the initiators Betuwemolen and Betuwewind in uncertainty for so long."

An argument that Betuwemolen used to make haste has disappeared: the Environmental Act. This will be introduced later than July 1, as previously planned. In that case, the province of Gelderland could have overruled the municipalities of Overbetuwe and Neder-Betuwe to issue the permits itself. This would reduce local influence. However, the introduction of this law has been postponed again by at least six months.
You should not make the initiators wait until the end of the year
The central government requests studies from the RIVM and the GGD

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: February 22, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")