Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Berg en Dal is not much affected by criminal influences, but an investigation follows
The Gelderlander
February 8, 2023 Wednesday
Rijk van Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 475 words
Byline: THED MAAS
Body


How vulnerable is the municipality of Berg en Dal to subversion, to the influence of criminals and the underworld? The local independent audit office wants to investigate this question this year.

Thed Maas

Groesbeek

Because although Berg en Dal is in 268th place (out of 352 municipalities) on the recently published Underworld Map of RTL Nieuws in terms of criminal undermining, but that could be better of course. 'Not that Berg en Dal stands out, but', the audit office writes to the municipal council, 'in our opinion, there is sufficient reason - given the current attention for this subject - to examine how the municipality gives administrative attention to this'.

What is subversion? 'A drug lab in a residential area, a run-down street with numerous dubious shops, a criminal sugar daddy at a football club or payments with large amounts of cash' is how the Underworld Map describes it. Formally: when criminals set up companies for their activities - buy buildings for this purpose - and apply to the municipality for the necessary permits.
Heerlen at number 1
RTL's underworld map shows that municipalities in South Limburg are especially sensitive to this. Heerlen tops the rankings. 'Drugs and weapons (22.7 cases per 10,000 inhabitants) are never far away in Heerlen. Nearly 5 percent of all Heerlen properties are owned by a convicted owner, 1 in 15 young people are at increased risk of ending up in drug crime and 1 in 8 households are struggling with problematic debts," according to the underworld map.

In Berg en Dal, 2.1 percent of the properties are owned by a convicted owner, 4.7 percent of young people are at risk of ending up in the drug trade, there are 3.4 cases involving arms trafficking per 10,000 inhabitants and 5. 5 percent of households are in debt. Heumen is at number 302 on the Underworld Map, Mook and Middelaar at 345 and Nijmegen at number 47.

Things are not too bad in Berg en Dal, but the audit office wants to see how the municipality can 'maintain or even further improve its relatively favorable position'.

Since 2006, every municipality is obliged to have an independent audit office (committee). The audit office investigates how effective the management conducted by the municipality is. There is also a check whether everything is done according to the rules.

Every year the audit office makes a list of topics it wants to investigate - politicians can make suggestions. This year these are the new environmental law (on zoning plans); the way in which the municipality handles complaints and undermining.
Subversion: 'A drug lab in a residential area, a street with numerous dubious shops, or a criminal sugar daddy at a football club'
How can Berg en Dal maintain or further improve its relatively favorable position?

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: February 7, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")