Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The government says one thing and does something else
The Gelderlander
July 14, 2017 Friday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 16, 17
Length: 833 words
Byline: SANDER VAN MERSBERGEN PETER WINTERMAN
Highlight: The hiring of external staff in the government is skyrocketing. In two years, costs increased by almost 20 percent, according to research by this newspaper. The government is calling for less flexible work, but does not have its own house in order.
Body


flexible work own research
"These are political choices." Jan Homrighausen, HR advisor in the Gelderland municipality of Berkelland, cannot make more of it either. His municipality, with 44,000 inhabitants and located on the border with Germany, spent more than 4 million euros on hiring external staff in 2016. A year earlier that was still 2.5 million euros, in 2014 only 590,000 euros. In two years, the external cost item has increased eightfold. "We have a lot more work due to the social transitions from the government. New people have to have kitchen table conversations with older people who need support. And then as a municipality we are also in a process of change."

These are sounds that you hear everywhere, from Zwartewaterland to Heerenveen and from Heerlen to Alkmaar. 'We have been given so many additional tasks that our people cannot handle them all.' It is certainly not only the small municipalities that are affected: Rotterdam saw its expenditure on external hiring double in the space of two years to 86 million euros. Amsterdam even spends more than 200 million on flex workers, temporary workers, self-employed people and consultants.
Much busier
Together, the 112 municipalities that participated in this study spent 869 million euros on external hiring, 10 percent more than last year and even 23 percent more than in 2014. "We have seen in recent years that municipalities have become much busier with tasks. that have been transferred from the government," says Annelou van Egmond, spokesperson for the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG). "Manpower has to be hired for that."

Makes sense, right? Yet something strange is going on. It is not only municipalities that have started hiring more externally in recent years. Ministries, provinces and water boards have also outsourced much more work. The latter group even hires almost 50 percent more externally than in 2014, an explosive increase. Rijnland Water Board, which almost doubled its expenditure on hiring, says that there are 'more and larger projects'. "Consider flood protection programs, large dredging projects and the implementation of the environmental law."

The province of Overijssel, which saw expenditure increase from 20 to 24 million in one year, more than 30 percent of total personnel costs, has a similar explanation. “A major investment program was implemented in 2016. The improvement of the N340, room for the IJsseldelta-Zuid river, and so on. In short: large projects that temporarily require more people."

It may all be true, but the result is that almost 13 percent of government personnel expenditure now goes to external personnel. Two years ago that was 11 percent. A small difference perhaps, but in reality it concerns many hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers' money.

"You could say that the government's work is becoming increasingly complex and that they do not have the knowledge and competencies to deal with challenges," says Ton Wilthagen, professor of the labor market at Tilburg University. "Or they cannot attract the right employees."

Not everyone is happy with this development, on the contrary. Trade unions are concerned about increasing flexibility. "Flexible work should be limited to peak and sick periods," says Zakaria Boufangacha, collective labor agreement coordinator at FNV. "Structural work should be carried out by permanent employees."
Disappointing
That is not happening, and that is disappointing, says Boufangacha. According to Professor Wilthagen, it shows that the government as an employer does not distinguish itself from companies. "Government organizations face great uncertainty about budgets, and therefore about the amount of staff they can employ."

This creates a remarkable situation. On the one hand, the government states that flexible work must be reduced. According to Lodewijk Asscher, outgoing Minister of Social Affairs, 'a cultural change' is needed. "An employee is more than a cost item or a means of production that you have to get rid of quickly," he said at the end of last year.

On the other hand, the government is actively participating. According to Boufangacha, this makes the government lack credibility. Wilthagen: "Companies will scratch their heads when they read these figures." According to him, the government itself caused the situation, with cutbacks and 'an unpredictable course in terms of policy'.

Minister Asscher does not comment on the figures, he refers to colleague Plasterk (Home Affairs). He says that external hiring 'may sometimes be necessary'. "By absorbing peaks with external hiring, it is avoided that additional staff have to be permanently recruited. In this way, external hiring contributes to the pursuit of a smaller government." Member of Parliament Hanke Bruins Slot (CDA) doubts whether all hiring is efficient and thinks that it is 'being handled too loosely'.

View the original page: page 16, page 17

Load Date: July 14, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")