Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Property tax in Rheden will increase by more than 6 percent in 2021
The Gelderlander
July 3, 2020 Friday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 7
Length: 299 words
Byline: PIET VENHUIZEN
Highlight: The property tax (OZB) in the municipality of Rheden must increase by more than 6 percent next year. At least that is the intention of the city council. The final decision should be made in November.
Body


The higher tax should contribute to the 2 million euros cut that the municipality must implement next year. The cutbacks are necessary because of the high costs that Rheden incurs for social care, youth care and assistance to people without jobs.

The cuts will not be officially determined until the budget meeting in November.

The plan to increase property tax by an additional 5 percent (on top of the inflation correction of approximately 1.2 percent) is part of a much broader austerity plan by the coalition parties D66, CDA, VVD and ChristenUnie. Half of the coalition party PvdA (Joppe Jeroen de Ruijter and Henk van Valburg) does not support the plan. The two see too little balance between additional income and cuts.

Other things that the coalition (minus the two PvdA council members) are proposing are a cut of half a million on welfare services and of 10 percent on the budgets for economic development, area development, sustainability, governance and safety. According to the parties, an additional half million savings can be made on overhead.

The VVD's proposal to investigate whether the Welstandscommissie could be abolished was passed unanimously. With the new Environmental Act, such a committee is no longer necessary. The VVD proposal to examine the consequences of cuts in monument policy and heritage policy also received everyone's votes.

The parties also fully agreed on the proposal to call on Minister Ollongren to do something about the poor financial condition of almost all Dutch municipalities. The proposal by the opposition parties GroenLinks, SP and GPRB not to cut back on increasingly expensive healthcare tasks did not succeed.

View the original page: page 7

Load Date: July 2, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")