Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Paper tiger throws out lines
The Limburger
February 5, 2019 Tuesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2019 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 471 words
Byline: BY JEROEN GEERTS AND RENÉ WILLEMS
Body


 COOPERATION
 BACKGROUND LINE 50 MUNICIPALITIES
GULPEN-WITTEM
To date, cooperation between the Lijn 50 municipalities has mainly been a paper tiger. The next step: Eijsden-Margraten, Gulpen-Wittem and Vaals reach out to the residents.
Last year, the municipality of Vaals engaged an agency to map 'the DNA of Vaals'.
And in fact, that is exactly what needs to happen now for the three municipalities along the former bus line number 50 together.
Until now, the collaboration between the Heuvelland municipalities of Vaals, Gulpen-Wittem and Eijsden-Margraten has mainly been a paper tiger.
Now it's time to get out from behind the desks. How do they see their environment? What do the residents see as the common values ​​of the area between the Maas near Eijsden and the Drielandenpunt?
To further deepen mutual cooperation in the coming years, the three municipalities are drawing up a joint vision for the area: the guideline document Line 50. The municipalities have assigned a trainee to the project. To date, he has mainly worked from the office and compared strategic visions.
But that doesn't mean you know how residents view the collaboration. That is why a survey is currently being conducted among the population. Residents can complete this via the municipal websites until mid-February.
In the survey, residents can indicate which joint themes they believe the three municipalities should concentrate on.
The landscape is the first thing everyone thinks of when it comes to shared values.
But there is so much more. Traditions, culture, association life. "But they may soon come up with aspects that we are overlooking," says Gulpen-Wittem councilor Guido Houben.
The profile sketch for the Line 50 area should mainly serve as a basis for a number of concrete projects. A kind of 'Line 50 agenda', with matters that can be tackled jointly in the three municipalities in the coming period.
There have already been some exercises on this point over the past year.
Eijsden-Margraten, Gulpen-Wittem and Vaals, for example, have aligned their tourism visions so that they do not get in each other's way on that point. They have also bundled administrative processing in the implementation of social legislation, as well as in the maintenance of public spaces.
In the coming months, the municipalities will also work together to introduce the new Environmental Act, which bundles various old regulations in the field of spatial planning and the environment. "90 percent of those rules are the same for all three," Houben notes. "So it is nonsense to tackle that separately. I say: join forces and do it right once."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 5, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")