Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Beware of the location for an industrial estate in Winterswijk
The Gelderlander
June 9, 2022 Thursday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 424 words
Byline: WOUT DUSSELDORP
Body


By presenting their agreements, the coalitions of Oost Gelre and Winterswijk have provided a first insight into the most important points for the next four years.

In Winterswijk this involves two firm commitments. "The cutbacks for the Jaspers swimming pool mean the end of the line and we will cover the clay pit," says party leader Wim Wassink of the CDA. His party takes a seat in the coalition together with Voor Winterswijk (VW) and PvdA.

The new coalition is less certain about the plan to build an industrial estate on the Misterweg - also a hot topic in the municipality. "We will put the plan on hold for a while," said VW faction leader Tom van Beek. "We first want to go through the process again and then make a new assessment."
Tooth
Oost Gelre is committed to continuing the path already taken. Especially because the coalition of CDA and VVD will continue for another four years. "We have done great things over the past four years, but it is now time to step up our game," said CDA faction leader Walter Leemreize.

By this he refers in particular to housing policy. The municipality wants to make it easier, especially for starters, to live in the municipality. Leasehold makes it a lot cheaper for starters to build a house. The land under the house then remains the property of the municipality, so it does not have to be paid for immediately. "We think it is very important that it becomes possible to ultimately acquire ownership of this land," VVD faction leader Kees Porskamp said.
Aldermen
In addition to the agreements, the aldermen and their portfolios are also known. For East Gelre these are Ellen Dusseldorp-Ribbers (VVD), Jos Hoenderboom (CDA), Bart Porskamp (VVD) and Arjen Schutten (CDA). Dusseldorp becomes councilor for education, culture and the social domain. Hoederboom is involved in spatial development and implementation of housing policy. Porskamp focuses on housing policy, sports and the energy transition and Schutten is responsible for finance, land affairs and real estate, among other things.

In Winterswijk it is Sandra Metaal - ten Dolle (VW, finance, environmental law, culture), Elvira Schepers (PvdA, work and income, education, youth care), Gosse Visser (VW, economy industry, housing, energy transition) and Wim Wassink (CDA , sports, WMO, infrastructure, nature and landscape).

Wout Dusseldorp
The cuts for the Jaspers swimming pool have been cut short

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: June 8, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")