Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Peak construction permits, 'applications have been accelerated'
The Limburger
April 20, 2024 Saturday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION; Page 64
Length: 417 words
Body


After a dramatic dip in January, an unusually large number of building permits appear to have been granted in February. Will housing construction start again?
"Unfortunately, we do not see that yet," say the house builders. According to them, the enormous increase has a completely different cause. Last January, municipalities granted only 2,507 building permits, the lowest number in ten years. However, in February there were 5,606, it reported. CBS Thursday. That is a third more than last year and even the highest figure for February since 2018.
Yet probably no miracle has occurred. "We expected this," says director Coen van Rooyen of trade organization WoningBouwersNL. "It has to do with the introduction of the new Environmental Act on January 1. Many builders therefore quickly applied for a building permit before that date."
Early
CBS only registers building permits once they have been granted, Van Rooyen explains. "So you always only see the applications reflected in the statistics months later." He warns against premature conclusions. "I have also told Minister De Jonge (Housing): 'If such high figures come out about building permits, Then don't immediately shout that housing construction will start again."
Construction economist Paul Bisschop of ABN Amro is not impressed by the increase in any case. "The number of permits was already low, so the chance of an increase is greater. The combination of the slightly lower mortgage interest rates and increased wages provides an incentive for new construction projects."
More interest
Real estate agents are noticing increasing interest in new construction. According to housing market researcher Johan Conijn, it is therefore not impossible that the figures are also more positive. “Although it remains a guess. I wouldn't be surprised if housing associations have become more active. It could also be that the number of flexible housing units is finally increasing. But one swallow doesn't make a summer."
The Economic Institute for Construction states that the increase in the number of building permits is positive, 'but certainly not impressive'.
In general, market researchers see a lot of uncertainty in housing construction, partly due to tax increases and new regulations that are coming. Many investors have therefore turned away from Dutch homes. Last year, the number of building permits fell to 55,000, half the number that Minister De Jonge was aiming for and the lowest number since 2014. (De Telegraaf)
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 19, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")