Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Pim Fortuyn woke up the Netherlands'
The Limburger
April 12, 2021 Monday
entire editionVenloVenrayRoermondWTMaastrichtSittard-GeleenHeerlenKL


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: PROFESSOR; Page 33
Length: 435 words
Byline: Ton De Lange
Body


The revolt against technocratic governance has enlivened our democracy. This calls for more intensive citizen participation." This is what Wim Voermans, professor of administrative and constitutional law at the University of Leiden, says. One of the reasons is the Environmental Act, which will come into effect next year and will entail new procedures for zoning plans and regional plans. "It will hopefully change and improve participation. The starting point is to make policy together. Another reason is that on the one hand citizens do not feel heard enough and on the other hand municipalities want more involvement."
Local parties
Since Fortuyn's 'different sound' (1948-2002), almost a third of all council seats in the country have been occupied by local parties. "'Fresh blood' is in principle always good," Voermans believes. The figures prove it. "In the 1990s, confidence in local democracy was at 70 percent, now participation in elections is at 80 percent. And that in a country where voting is not mandatory. There is a lot of bickering and trouble, but those emotions are not a sign of disinterest. It only indicates two worlds colliding hard."
Both have a lesson to learn. Solid citizen participation then plays a major role. “We are now balancing too much on a tightrope. Civil servants and administrators have become increasingly professional, partly forced by the fact that the number of municipalities has been reduced from 1000 to 350. They became larger, but did not have more time and money. More tasks. Everything has to be more businesslike. It is a form of 'the world is dying of industry'."
Citizen forums
This year Voermans published The country must be governed: Machiavelli in the polder. In that book he writes that 'many citizens have good intentions'. "I don't focus blindly on the nefarious." It is time to set up citizen forums, for example, for fruitful participation. "Citizens should also know that where twenty people come together, there can also be twenty thoughts. That the majority can think differently than you. Participation is not about settling scores, as in elections, but about hearing what is going on and inviting you to think along." The municipality must be willing to spend more time on plans and 'talk a little longer in small rooms'.
"It is in fact reinventing yourself, realizing that the balance has shifted to the administrative side. When making plans, as a municipality, ask yourself: 'Who do we ask, what do we ask and at what time.' The frustration is that citizens now experience participation as 'an explanation round' where everything has already been settled."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 11, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")