Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Niemeskant Volkel plan is taking further shape: construction of 186 houses may start as early as 2025
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 7, 2023 Thursday 09:57 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 327 words
Byline: Hans van Alebeek
Body


VOLKEL - With January 1 in sight - when the new Environmental Act comes into effect - the municipality of Maashorst continues to accelerate with construction plans. This week the draft zoning plan for Niemeskant in Volkel was finalized: a project that provides for the construction of 186 homes for Volkel.
“Sinterklaas could not have given Volkel a better gift than this,” says a pleased councilor Franko van Lankvelt, who can spread good news almost every week this month. Plan Niemeskant is one of these, a long-awaited expansion plan on the west side of Volkel between Vloetstraat, Leeuwstraat and Boekelsedijk.
Social and purchasing
The plan includes the construction of 186 homes of various types, both rental and purchase. This varies from social housing (75) and medium-priced (48) to expensive (57). This concerns terraced houses, semi-detached houses and detached houses. Six free plots have been registered on the corner of Vloetstraat and Boekelsedijk.
The homes are built natural gas-free, equipped with a heat pump and ventilation with heat recovery. Project developer is construction company Van Wanrooij, which registered hundreds of people interested in a home during an initial information evening about the plan.
Start in 2025?
The plan is now available for inspection. According to Alderman Van Lankvelt, the expansion plan has been very carefully prepared and discussed with all local residents and stakeholders. He is hopeful that the first shovel can be broken in 2025. But that will mainly depend on any objectors who can go to court, causing delays to the plan.
The pace at which the houses are built is up to developer Van Wanrooij. Van Lankvelt hopes that people from Volkel will be given priority access to a house. “With this plan we are strengthening the core of Volkel,” says Van Lankvelt. “We use it to meet the regular housing needs in the village. And especially the needs of specific target groups, with many social rental homes and cheap owner-occupied homes.”

Load Date: December 7, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")