Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Bernheze quickly approves construction plans for the introduction of the Environmental Act on January 1: 'Prevent delays'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 19, 2023 Tuesday 09:48 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 349 words
Byline: Lemmia Laaroussi
Body


HEESCH - A total of 361 homes will be made available for inspection by Bernheze this year. Rode? The new Environmental Act comes into effect on January 1. In this way, the municipality wants to prevent delays in larger construction projects in particular.
With the new Environmental Act, the old procedure for zoning plans will no longer apply and environmental plans will now be used. The council is speeding up, because it wants to prevent these slow procedures from taking even longer after January 1.
“The housing shortage is great. That is why we have completed plans that were already underway before the new year,” explains councilor Edwin Daandels in this final sprint. “We are well prepared for the new Environmental Act and have practiced a lot. Unfortunately, it cannot be ruled out that teething problems may arise due to new rules and lack of experience. Resulting in delays.”
Building for different target groups
Larger construction projects in Bernheze in particular are given priority and will now be available for inspection for six weeks. The council now quickly approves, among other things, the controversial design of the Mooiland housing association in D'n Berg in Heesch. The plan for 14 houses and 63 apartments was strongly criticized by local residents during the environmental dialogue in October.
On the Nobisweg-Hommelsedijk in Heeswijk-Dinther there are plans for 208 homes for different target groups: from owner-occupied homes, lifelong homes to social rental apartments and terraced houses. Residents there also have six weeks to respond to the design for 36 apartments on Hoofdstraat and Monseigneur van Oorschotstraat.
Vorstenbosch focuses on lifelong sustainability
The housing stock in Vorstenbosch will also see a significant expansion on Eggerlaan. This new plan consists of four semi-detached houses and twelve ground-floor apartments including storage rooms and parking spaces. Ten of these are life-cycle-proof.
"We were not able to make everyone who submitted a plan for the new year happy. But after January 1st comes January 2nd. Everything that has been left behind will be worked out under the Environmental Act,” the councilor said.

Load Date: December 19, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")