Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Plan: 'urban sports park' near Noorderbrug
The Limburger
August 28, 2021 Saturday
Maastricht


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 590 words
Byline: Joos Philippens
Body


Your own base in the Frontenpark, including a skate park under the Noorderbrug. A plan that the Stadsnomade foundation has officially submitted to the municipality of Maastricht.
Skating is a rapidly growing sport in Maastricht and attracts a striking number of girls. According to Ben Gillissen (36) and Mick Wiertz (34) of Stadsnomade, there are already at least three hundred practitioners in the city. A good development, because one in nine children cannot afford a sports subscription and their motor skills are declining. "For us, your origins, background or what's in your wallet don't matter," says Wiertz, an enthusiastic skate teacher himself. "It's about what you can do, it's about trial and error. Giving people a chance, giving them physically and mentally."
Need
The foundation, founded in 2018, is mainly concerned with cool, 'urban' activities: skating, break dance, street basketball and free run. Stadsnomade works from the bottom up, together with the target group. And that in the usually somewhat chic city of Maastricht. With growth, the need for an extra place also increases. "The uncovered skate park De Griend is often unusable, which is outdated under the Kennedy Bridge," says Wiertz. Ben Gillissen: "It is often so busy that it is no longer safe."
They collected 1,500 signatures with a petition for the 'Urban Oasis', the desired urban sports park in the Frontenpark. Skating under the Noorderbrug, with an 'Urban Culture' kiosk next to it. "A contemporary small community center, for lectures, exhibitions and the lending of skate equipment, but also a place where you can have a drink," Wiertz outlines. "Plus a stand where people can work with their laptop in the open air. Close to the Music Foundry, Radium and the Coking Factory."
A permanent place is also crucial for the future of the City Nomads themselves, who still literally roam through Maastricht. "We do everything as a pop-up, in different locations, set up every time and dismantled the same day," Wiertz outlines. "With a permanent location and the regularity of fixed opening hours, we can really build a community." The ambition has been around for three years, professionally developed more than a year ago by architects Peter Claassens and Jeroen Verbeek, plus the specialized agency Skateon.
'Fat plan'
The urban sports park fits perfectly into the municipal policy of the 'exercise-friendly environment.' Councilor Bert Jongen called it a 'fat plan,' they say with a grin. But that is not yet a certainty. Stadsnomade submitted a request in principle in May, Gillissen and Wiertz ended up at a so-called 'Environmental table'. “The municipality wants to do more about citizen participation, under the influence of the new Environmental Act. For us, that meant an hour of zooming with officials from thirteen different departments."
City Nomad recorded a lot of positive feedback. "But one department argued that the Frontenpark is intended for 'extensive recreation,' and our plan would conflict with that. They coordinated internally." In other words: City nomad waits for the redeeming word.
But even if that is the case, the skate park still has to overcome an important hurdle. Money. "Normally the municipality pays for sports parks, but we keep hearing: we have to make cuts, the municipality has no money," says Gillissen. "We are now looking for the necessary half a million euros ourselves, with the help of a professional. And hope that the The municipality will soon help us on all kinds of other fronts. In short: we have decided to keep up the momentum, we will no longer be discouraged."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 19, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")