Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Plan for housing 140 migrant workers in Wagenberg: residents feel 'overwhelmed'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 1, 2024 Thursday 03:51 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 443 words
Byline: Paul Verlinden
Body


WAGENBERG - Unrest has arisen in Wagenberg about a plan to house a maximum of 140 migrant workers on the Thijssenweg. On that street - on the border of Wagenberg and Hooge Zwaluwe - approximately 75 Ukrainian refugees are currently staying in various buildings.
The unrest arose after initiator Kees Verhoef sent a letter to local residents about the plan. This concerns three new residential complexes at the end of the Thijssenweg. Verhoef also owns a number of properties in the street where Ukrainian people live.
According to a number of shocked residents - who have united in a citizens' initiative - the people in Wagenberg 'feel overwhelmed' by the letter. They believe that the plan has a 'very major impact' on a small center like Wagenberg, where approximately 2,200 people live.
Completely unclear
In a press release they write that 'it is completely unclear why this residential complex is necessary at all'. They also find it strange that the Drimmelen council itself does not provide any text or explanation. According to them, the council is 'hiding' behind the new environmental law that came into effect this year.
According to that law, an initiator must start a participation process himself. But the united residents have the impression that the municipal executive has already made preparations to ensure that the plan goes ahead quickly. According to them, Verhoef has already indicated in a conversation with the village council that he wants to start construction in the spring.
No running course
In a response, the Municipal Executive said through a spokesperson that this is certainly not the case: 'We have not yet received an application. It is clear that Mr Verhoef intends to submit an application.
The council considers housing a maximum of 140 migrant workers to be responsible if, among other things, housing standards and safety requirements are met. "We have also agreed that we will not house international employees in the center of a village," the spokesperson said. But that does not automatically mean that a permit will be granted. The application for this must be assessed on various points. The municipal council must also give advice on this.
Sufficient privacy
In the letter to local residents, Verhoef writes that from the start, what is 'efficient and pleasant' for migrant workers will be taken into account, such as sufficient privacy but also opportunity for pastime. According to him, supervision and parking will be properly arranged.
There will be a walk-in meeting about the plan on Monday, February 5 from 4:00 PM to 7:00 PM at café Bij Bas on Dorpsstraat in Wagenberg.

Load Date: April 18, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")