Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Plan for a ring road near Oeding has been taken out of the closet again
The Gelderlander
October 31, 2023 Tuesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 444 words
Byline: TANJA KITS
Body


The plans for the construction of a ring road around the German town of Oeding have been shelved. The ring road, an important arterial road between Winterswijk and Germany, should reduce through traffic in Oeding by half.

There is now a rush, because the final plan for the Dutch part of the ring road must be available for inspection before the end of the year. The new Environmental Act comes into force on 1 January. This would mean that all kinds of additional studies would have to be carried out before the construction of the ring road.

The plan for a ring road around Oeding dates back to 1994, when an initial study into the route was conducted. The ring road will be on the south side of the German village, which is located on the border with the Winterswijk hamlet of Kotten.

The last plan was available for inspection in 2019, which received nineteen responses. The municipality of Winterswijk never did anything about this. The municipality will now approach all objectors again to ask whether their views are still up to date. If so, they will still receive a formal answer.

Mayor Werner Stödtke of the municipality of Südlohn is happy with the restart. "The construction of the new Südlohn-Oeding ring road is urgently needed. It provides a better living environment and contributes to the traffic safety of the village."

The Landesstrasse 558, which runs through the center of Oeding, is an important connecting road between the Netherlands and Germany. The new ring road will have a total length of 3.3 kilometers, of which approximately 500 meters are on Dutch territory. The German government pays the costs of the road section on Dutch land. The province of Gelderland still has to purchase the land for the construction of the ring road.

The fact that the plan has been shelved for the past four years has to do with 'capacity and priority', the municipality of Winterswijk said. “These types of projects are normally handled by the province and not by the municipality. So it is new for us," says spokesperson Ilena Gies.

“In addition, it is a cross-border project. The procedures in Germany are very different than in the Netherlands. This complexity has meant that the Rondweg Oeding project has often been left behind. We are happy that we have now joined forces again and this time we are confident that we can complete the project."

The new draft zoning plan will be available for inspection before the end of the year. Local residents and those involved can then respond again. In the municipality of Südlohn, the plan for the ring road is already in the final phase.

Tanja Kits
This time we are confident that we can complete the project

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: October 30, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")