Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Plan for sixty homes at the Berghem Sports Center site
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 10, 2023 Sunday 03:40 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 303 words
Byline: Peter van Erp
Body


BERGHEM - If it is up to the municipality, a residential area with sixty homes will be built on the site of the Sports Center in Berghem. The new construction plan consists of 18 social rental apartments, 30 terraced houses and 12 semi-detached houses.
The nature and design of the new district must fit in with the existing Het Reut district. According to the initiators, eighty percent of the homes fall into the 'affordable' category. The space that will become available after demolition of the Sports Center covers 1.3 hectares. Like many other construction plans, this plan is also deliberately made available for inspection before the new year, to avoid the uncertain effects of the new Environmental Act.
Vaccination location GGD
Two years ago, owner Marian van Zutphen announced that she was selling the Sports Center to a project developer. Her complex was then hit hard by forced closures during the lockdowns. In addition, many associations prefer a municipal sports hall to this private accommodation, according to Van Zutphen in relation to subsidy conditions. Ironically, the Sports Center later became the GGD's Covid-19 vaccination location in this region.
The Sports Center itself consists of 7,500 square meters of covered surface. Fitness business Four2Go will move to the Piekenhoef on January 1, where it will merge with Fitness 4 All. The padel, squash and bowling courts can remain at their current location until April 2025, they have been promised. Discussions are underway to place some or all of these facilities near the new swimming pool to be built on the other side of the Osseweg. There are alternatives for padel players in the immediate area, but almost all of them are in the open air. The five bowling clubs that are still active in Berghem have nowhere else to go in this region.

Load Date: December 10, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")