Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Try tailor-made advertising rules
The Limburger
June 13, 2017 Tuesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2017 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 1
Length: 367 words
Byline: BY JOHN HOOFS
Body


MAASTRICHT
Maastricht will allow experiments with advertising for five quarters.
There will be more options, according to the updated welfare memorandum.
Maastricht has a national reputation for being very strict regarding advertising.
Unbridled proliferation of flags, garish facade logos, displays and canvases with slogans printed in cow print has been prevented with strict, clear rules. The result is a widely praised image of public space.
But times change and that leads to criticism if there is a lack of flexibility to keep up with trends in entrepreneurial circles. When updating the 2004 aesthetic memorandum, it was therefore decided to deal more flexibly with advertising requests and wishes from companies from the fourth quarter of 2017 and throughout 2018. This has led to the decision to allow more policy freedom on industrial estates, business parks, office locations and large-scale retail trade in the periphery of the city, such as hardware stores. 'More opportunities for customization and experimentation and more transparent communication about advertising policy', states the new welfare memorandum that will be discussed by the municipal council next week.
The modest policy adjustment was chosen based on various meetings with stakeholders.
Main conclusion: 'Deviation from the aesthetic rules is always possible as long as the final result has sufficient aesthetic quality that fits in with the environment'.
To be clear: nothing changes in the shopping center and the rules remain as strict as they were. From the end of this year, for example, large industrial estates and places with many offices will be allowed to advertise with mega-screens and large billboards and canvases. If there is an objection to this and there are 'conflicting interests', the city council will - after consultation with the aesthetics committee - make an assessment and make a decision.
The experimental period also serves as an exercise for the introduction of the new Environmental Act in 2019, which includes various other laws.
<B> Deviation from the aesthetic rules is always possible. From the letter to the municipal council about the new welfare memorandum</B>
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 13, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")