Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Protest against 'Dubai on the Meuse'
The Gelderlander
October 13, 2020 Tuesday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 1
Length: 619 words
Byline: DENNIS GREIJN
Highlight: A new holiday park between Beers and Linden with 700 holiday homes is much too big for the Kraaijenbergse Plassen near Cuijk. This is at the expense of peace, space and nature, for water sports enthusiasts from the region and local residents, among others.
Body


This is the opinion of the recently established interest group Friends of the Groene Kraaij. She is starting a petition on the internet against the latest large-scale recreation plans in the Dommelsvoort area: (vriendenvandegroenekraaij.nl).

Friends of the Groene Kraaij consists of representatives of rowing club De Drie Provinciën, water sports club de Kraaijenbergse Plassen, the surfing club, bird working group Nijmegen, diving team Atlantis and sailing club Heumen. Together they account for more than 1,100 members.

"The balance will soon be completely lost," says water sports enthusiast Petra Cranen from Beugen, member of water sports association De Kraaijenbergse Plassen and one of the initiators. "We are not against tourism and recreation. But against mass tourism. And that's exactly what you get with a holiday park of no less than 700 houses, with more than 600 moorings for boats. Traffic alone will increase enormously here, with a number of visitors of 1 million per year, according to the environmental impact assessment. On a summer day this will lead to 12,000 transport movements per day."
Bungalow park
In July it was announced that TopParken wants to build its newest bungalow park in the lake area near Cuijk in the coming years, accounting for seven hundred luxury holiday homes on man-made private beaches. With 75 hectares it should become 'one of the largest holiday resorts in Europe'. The name: The Dutch Palm, a reference to the island in the shape of a palm in the oil state of Dubai.

JWP Investments from Lunteren, owner of TopParken, has taken over the redevelopment of Dommelsvoort from project developer Van Boekel from the village of Zeeland. Years ago, they were going to build a holiday park here with about 400 luxury holiday homes. But construction did not start, partly due to the economic crisis. Van Boekel and the municipality of Cuijk even ended up in court in 2018 to fight out their dispute over land transfer for 6.3 million euros. The municipality is now 'extremely happy' with the new developer.
In conversation
Katja Buijs from Vianen is, besides Cranen, one of the people behind Friends of the Groene Kraaij. "We do not see ourselves as a protest movement or an action group," says Buijs, who practices surfing himself. "We want to talk to the municipality and other stakeholders to look at the possibilities."

According to the Friends of the Groene Kraaij, the lakes along the A73 are already very busy during the summer months. Buijs: “You can wait for major accidents. I have personally experienced a speedboat at full speed just managing to avoid me while I was lying in the water near my surfboard. I screamed very loudly at that time."

Cranen: "How many times have I seen near-collisions between boats? This must also remain a beautiful lake area for people from the region, with room for peace and nature. Soon it will be the Mediterranean Sea here. Be careful with your nature. See this area as wealth.”
Big enough
"Why is no park with a maximum of 200 holiday homes sufficient? That is already big enough," says Buijs.

According to the new interest group, the lake area will soon have 'as many houses as the villages of Beers and Linden combined'.

Buijs: “EuroParcs also has a park there since this spring. TopParken is added to that. The latest plan is based on a zoning plan from 2012. But times are different now. Busy tourist areas can be found everywhere, but places like here with recreation and nature are unique. The new environmental law will be introduced in 2022. This gives much more space to residents. We must act now in the spirit of that law.”
We are not against tourism and recreation. Against mass tourism

View the original page: page 1

Graphic

 
Water sports enthusiasts fear a number of visitors of 1 million per year if the construction of 700 recreational homes at the Kraaijenbergse Plassen continues.

Load Date: October 12, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")