Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Protest against solar park near Babberich
The Gelderlander
April 9, 2019 Tuesday
Liemers Edition


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 431 words
Byline: KARIN MULDER
Highlight: Residents of Ravenstraat and De Sleeg in Babberich, among others, do not see anything in the plan for a solar field in their neighborhood. They fear that the proposed solar park will seriously affect the living environment of the predominantly agricultural area.
Body


De Sleeg Solar Park is the name of the plan by the Wageningen company LC Energy. With an area of ​​approximately 31 hectares, the proposed solar field could meet the energy needs of approximately 10,000 households annually.

Local residents of the area do not see anything in the plans. They informed both the initiator and the municipality of Zevenaar about this. There are ten houses in the immediate vicinity of the area where the solar park is to be located. Sixteen signatures have been submitted against the plan. The objectors believe that a solar field on the agricultural plot in question would 'destroy the landscape value' and the view: "We came to live here almost without exception because of the vast landscape and the variety of flora and fauna."

According to councilor Carla Koers, whose portfolio includes the environment and sustainability, there are twelve initiatives for similar plans in Zevenaar. This does not only concern plans for solar or wind farms, says Koers: "Then you should think of energy parks, where - in addition to sun, wind or water - energy is generated using, for example, hydrogen or biomass."

No permit has yet been applied for for the plan for the De Sleeg solar park. According to Koers, it is up to the initiators to create support for the plans. "This means we are anticipating the new Environmental Act in Zevenaar. You try to avoid having to deal with long procedures, such as with the De Bijvanck wind farm in Angerlo. How things turned out there certainly did not deserve the beauty prize."

Arno Albers, project developer at LC Energy and involved in the De Sleeg solar park, would like to work together with the municipality. "Support is always a difficult one," he says. "Participation and compensation are important factors. Municipalities deal with this differently. I can imagine that the residents in Babberich, who live directly next to the plan area, are not yet positive. because we cannot yet offer them anything concrete. We cannot, because we do not know what policy frameworks the municipality of Zevenaar applies in this regard. As far as we are concerned, it is certainly an option for people to be able to obtain electricity from this solar field."

Zevenaar wants to be natural gas-free by 2040. This means that the municipality will no longer use fossil fuels. There is now a thermal vision. Councilor Koers expects the energy transition plan to be ready by the end of the summer.
We live here because of the vast landscape and the variety of flora and fauna

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: April 8, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")