Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Province concerned about municipal finances
The Limburger
December 13, 2023 Wednesday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: CUTS; Page 9
Length: 276 words
Body


The province has concerns about the financial future of municipalities in Limburg, especially from 2026. In extreme cases, municipalities will have to make additional cuts.
Against this background, Deputy Elianne Demollin-Schneiders points out the importance for municipalities to take these financially uncertain future expectations into account. A letter to the Provincial Council reveals the concerns of the Provincial Executive.
On the one hand, municipalities will have to deal with more and more tasks and changes in the coming years, for example in the areas of housing, climate, nitrogen and the introduction of the Environmental Act. It is expected that these matters will require significant investments.
On the other hand, much is still unclear about the income. This has to do with different financing of municipalities by the government. The council sees this lack of clarity as a bottleneck from 2026 onwards. In the extreme case, there is a threat of large-scale cuts and there will be little money for new tasks. It was also difficult for some municipalities in Limburg to present a structurally balanced budget for 2024. Several municipalities therefore had to implement cuts or tax increases. In particular, tasks in the social domain, such as youth care, for which government resources are insufficient, play a role. Municipalities are also affected by the high energy prices for electricity and gas. In addition, it is not clear to municipalities whether the financial compensation from the government for the reception of status holders, asylum seekers and residents from Ukraine is sufficient to cover all costs.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 12, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")