Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Province transfers competent authority over ForFarmers to Lochem: 'Company must adhere to the rules'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 13, 2024 Tuesday 07:45 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 413 words
Byline: Niek Verhoeven
Body


Who will enforce the cattle feed giant ForFarmers? That question has been difficult to answer recently, but that uncertainty has now come to an end. The municipality of Lochem takes over the competent authority from the province.
Until this year, the province of Gelderland was the competent authority that monitors the implementation of the law at animal feed giant ForFarmers. "There are five orders subject to penalty with the aim of ensuring that all business activities are carried out according to the permit. This concerns violations of environmental regulations and construction and fire safety regulations," says spokesperson Karin Notenboom of the municipality of Lochem.
environmental code
The transition from the competent authority to the municipality is related to the introduction of the Environmental Act. This should make it easier and faster to apply for permits. However, the province does carry out the current enforcement procedures. Notenboom: "That is simply determined by law."
One of the procedures at ForFarmers concerns the biomass power plant. ForFarmers opened a biomass power plant in 2019 to supply the factory on the Twentekanaal in Lochem with sustainable energy. At the end of last year it became known that the biomass plant has been emitting nitrogen without a permit since 2019. The province of Gelderland knew this all along, but did not enforce it.
But ForFarmers does not have a valid nature permit for nitrogen emissions in nearby nature reserves. The Council of State annulled the old permit in mid-2019. Since then, the plant, which cost 4.8 million euros, has effectively been operating illegally.
Difficult to get a permit
ForFarmers has been in discussions with the province of Gelderland since mid-2019 about the possibilities for a permit. But since the outbreak of the nitrogen crisis, it has become extremely difficult to obtain permits for activities that emit nitrogen in protected nature. “We are busy with the province. We aim to complete this with the province in the very short term," says spokesperson Marieke Leussink on behalf of ForFarmers.
From now on, the municipality of Lochem will be responsible for enforcing rules. This is done in close consultation with ForFarmers, the municipality says. Notenboom: "We have good consultation and, in parallel, the business approach to enforce our new responsibility as of January 1 this year. Whether ForFarmers is willing to improve its life? Trust is our starting point. The company must adhere to all the rules, which is why various enforcement processes are underway."

Load Date: April 24, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")