Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Protect the Garden of Etten against housing development'
The Gelderlander
April 28, 2021 Wednesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 413 words
Byline: MARCEL HUT
Highlight: The Garden of Etten, the green area at Strik and Palmlaan in that village, should be given landscape protection status, making housing construction impossible in that location. This is what the Cultural Historical Heritage Committee of the municipality of Oude IJsselstreek argues in a letter to the municipality.
Body


The Achterhoek Weather Mooi Foundation and the De Groene Grens Etten Committee have also announced that they are against housing development in that location.

In the Oude IJsselstreek, we are working hard to build many new homes. In Etten, the council has agreed in principle to cooperate in four construction plans with a total of 43 homes in four locations. Ten homes with an 'agricultural appearance' could be built on Palmlaan/Strik.

There was immediate resistance to that plan, because according to Ettenaren it is a unique piece of nature. 'The Garden of Etten' is seen as a green buffer between the village and the Slingerparallel and the high-voltage line.

The Cultural Historical Heritage Committee of the municipality of Oude IJsselstreek has stated in a letter to the municipal council and council that it has come to the conclusion that encroachment on this area by housing development is undesirable. The committee recommends granting landscape protection status to the area.

The committee, set up by the municipality to provide solicited and unsolicited advice on heritage and cultural history, further writes that the area had already been designated as a place for housing in the past by the then municipality of Gendringen. The Provincial Executive of Gelderland did not approve this at the time. "This is also the reason why this area has never been affected," the committee said.

The Achterhoek Weather Mooi foundation also points out the value of the area in a letter to the municipality. The foundation describes the area in a detailed report. 'The farm has been on the municipal monument list since 1993; the area around it is an oasis of peace and deserves to be known and recognized and to be preserved'.

The Green Border Etten Action Committee calls on the council to include the Granada Treaty in the assessment of the plans. That treaty protects architectural heritage in relation to the environment. In other words: the environment of a monument must be taken into account to protect the monument from unsightly elements and activities.

The Granada Treaty is part of the new Environmental Act. This will come into effect on January 1, 2022. De Groene Grens believes that the municipality should already include this treaty: 'A wonderful opportunity to put the municipality's green ambitions into practice'.
It is a wonderful opportunity to put green ambitions into practice

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: April 27, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")