Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Province appeals to court due to 'unlimited number of salt locations' in Haaksbergen
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
May 9, 2024 Thursday 07:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 444 words
Byline: Teun Staal
Body


The province of Overijssel is appealing to the administrative court against the environmental permits granted for salt extraction in Haaksbergen. The provincial government notes that Nobian can construct many more salt extraction locations than the eight announced.
The Provincial Executive of Overijssel reports this in a letter to the Overijssel states. The province is 'not against salt extraction in the municipality of Haaksbergen', but is appealing to the court to request adjustments to the permits. “The permit is formulated in such a way that Nobian is given permission to construct an unlimited number of salt extraction sites, at any location,” GS writes.
Great legal uncertainty
According to the provincial government, this leads to 'great legal uncertainty' for residents in the area. In addition, the province anticipates problems with enforcement with the current permits. For 'Zwolle' this is sufficient reason to appeal. The province will not ask the court to annul the permits, but does want the wording to be adjusted. The appeal is currently still pro forma and includes one A4 sheet. The province will substantiate its objections later.
Nobian initially planned to extract salt from twelve or more places in Haaksbergen. The number of twelve locations was eventually reduced to the current eight caverns, where approximately half as much salt is extracted from the soil than initially intended. The salt company expects to carry out the first drilling in early 2025.
Wait for substantiation
Alderman Jan Herman Scholten of Haaksbergen is aware of the appeal that the province has filed. He first wants to wait for the substantive substantiation of the appeal. If Nobian wants to extract salt in more than eight places in the future, Haaksbergen will, according to Scholten, examine the powers of the municipal council and the mayor and aldermen. “We have had a new Environmental Act since January 1, so I cannot comment on that now.”
On behalf of the action group 'Don't let Haaksbergen sink', Epi Winkelhuis says he is happy with the appeal from the province of Overijssel. “We have always said that it does not stop at these eight salt locations, but that this is just the beginning. It is good to see that we have the province of Overijssel on our side on this point.”
Objection to extraction plan
 'Don't let Haaksbergen sink' also appealed against the permits for salt extraction last week. These opponents have also objected to the extraction plan with the Ministry of Economic Affairs.

Load Date: May 9, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")