Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Council of State whistles back in Maastricht
The Limburger
March 8, 2024 Friday
Maastricht


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: SPILLOVER AREA; Page 7
Length: 308 words
Body


Maastricht houseboat residents in the Overlaat area are allowed to keep their deck barges and pontoons. The municipality, which had banned them in the zoning plan, lost the short straw at the Council of State on Wednesday.
The municipality of Maastricht decided that the Spillway area between the Stuwweg and the Boscherweg should be chic and grand. Especially now that the areas along the Grensmaas have been upgraded for nature and recreation. Pontoons and deck barges were banned in the 2019 zoning plan and houseboat residents were imposed a penalty.
A years-long legal battle followed over certain provisions in the Grensmaas zoning plan. The residents' association challenged the municipal policy in the administrative court and was finally vindicated on Wednesday: the municipality, which had determined that the spatial appearance outweighs the interests of owners and residents, had to watch as the prohibitions in the zoning plan were annulled.
The Council of State had already ruled in an interim judgment that the interests of the eight residents had not been sufficiently taken into account, but the municipality of Maastricht stood firm. In April 2022, the highest administrative court ruled that the penalty payments had been wrongly imposed. The municipality then declared that there would be no more enforcement.
At the end of January, a delegation of worried houseboat residents stood in front of the city council chamber during a so-called citizens' platform. What if the Council of State were to rule that the municipality can now adequately justify the ban? Renée Hogervorst argued on behalf of the residents for a 'transitional right' in view of the new Environmental Act. However, the residents' fears have not been realized: the Council of State explicitly said in its judgment that transitional law will apply to eight existing pontoons and deck barges.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 7, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")