Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Council wants to get a grip on air quality in Weurt
The Gelderlander
March 26, 2021 Friday


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4
Length: 406 words
Byline: JOB VAN DER meer
Highlight: To ensure that the air quality in Weurt remains good, the Beuningen municipal council is calling for more measurements.
Body


The VVD took the lead in this last week by asking the councilor at the council meeting to start his own measurements of nitrogen and the carcinogenic substance benzene, and to follow up on the Nijmegen measurements of particulate matter.

Weurt is located next to the Nijmegen industrial area around the Maas-Waal Canal, and waste processor ARN is also located in the village. The residents of Weurten have just as many concerns about a healthy living environment as the residents of Nijmegen-West. They recently raised the alarm when the asphalt plant on Energieweg wanted a permit to emit more benzene.
Quarterly reporting
The Beuningse VVD therefore asked for a quarterly report on these measurements and received support from other parties in the municipal council.

The reason for the VVD was the response of the mayor and aldermen to previous questions from that party about air quality in Weurt. In it, the council said that the values ​​of nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter have only decreased in recent years and are also within legal standards. This also applies to the Nijmegen measurements of ships that degas on the Waal and discharge benzene.

So far, Beuningen has followed the Nijmegen measurements and the municipality wants to continue to do so, the council reported. The VVD advocated a more active attitude and own measurements. "We also have our own responsibility towards our own residents and their health," said councilor Karin van den Heuvel.
environmental code
In the new Environmental Act that will come into effect next year, a municipality may also set its own standards for the amount of toxic substances in the air. All political parties want to discuss this with each other. CDA member Pim van Teffelen first put the ball back at the council. “Let the councilor return this to the council and then come up with a plan that we can discuss together. It's important enough.”
May
The VVD motion was ultimately postponed because councilor Piet de Klein promised to come up with a plan in May that the city council can discuss.

"I would like to investigate the number of complaints in Weurt," De Klein added. "We have known for years that we are in a zone in Beuningen where, added up, things happen that we do not want. But we also know that this remains within the standards.”
We also have
our own responsibility towards our residents

View the original page: page 4

Load Date: March 25, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")