Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Raymond converted his business premises into a padel court for 100,000 euros and now the municipality is knocking on his door
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 27, 2023 Monday 04:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 643 words
Byline: Steven de Groot
Body


It seemed like such a great idea: when an entrepreneur from Leusden is faced with sky-high energy costs, he converts part of his company into a padel court. Now it looks like he spent a ton prematurely.
“This is it,” says Raymond Roest when he opens the door in a company warehouse. “All professionally laid out.” Roest owns Roest Leusden, where normal fruit is packaged and delivered. There is no fruit to be seen in this warehouse, but there are two brand new padel courts.
“Last year we were faced with rising energy costs,” says Roest. "We are also faced with increasing competition from abroad. So I started thinking about other ways to make money.”
Capacity
The plan: five energy-guzzling cold rooms will make way for padel courts. Roest is confident: "Of course we have sounded out politicians in advance. I heard that it would be a great initiative.” Reassured, he submits an exploratory initiative to the municipality in June. Then things go wrong.
“I never heard anything about that initiative again,” says Roest. "I started calling myself and was told that there was no capacity to process the plan. Staff shortage. They also couldn't give me a timeline for when the plan would be processed.”
Maybe there is some kind of reluctance, because I got ahead of the music
Undeterred, Roest continues the plan. A company can still install the jobs in July, an opportunity that Roest cannot miss: "At the time of construction in August, the rest of the work was at a standstill, so I could make use of my permanent staff." He estimates the costs at around 100,000 euros.
'No permit required'
Roest did not apply for a building permit or environmental permit at that time: "I looked it up, I didn't think I needed a building permit for an indoor construction. The zoning plan states that a side activity in addition to business operations is permitted, so I thought this was possible under the current environmental permit.”
Roest is so confident that he will start renting out the courts after construction in August. The fact that there is a demand for it is evident from the fact that there have been 240 registrations on his website in a short time. It's short-lived. After a visit from enforcement, everything has to be closed again.
According to the municipality, Roest should have applied for permits. It is not possible to turn a blind eye and remain open even if the lanes do not pass the fire safety inspection. “The constructed floor would not be safe,” says Roest. “While this is exactly the same as on other jobs, with fire specifications from the builder.”
Reluctance
Applying for the environmental permit in October threatens to be in vain: the responsible councilor Wim Vos will submit a 'proposed refusal of an environmental permit' to the municipal council on December 14. Commercial sports in rural areas should not be allowed at all according to the Environmental Act.
Was he naive? “Entrepreneurially optimistic,” says Roest. “I can't wrap my head around the fact that we won't get through this together. Maybe there is some kind of reluctance, because I got ahead of the music.” What if the intended refusal is approved by the council? Roest: “I really don't know. Maybe hire a lawyer, but then I close the door to discussions.”
Councilor Vos says in response: "He built without applying for a permit. The safety of the building cannot yet be guaranteed. Whatever activity you undertake, it must be safe. The VRU is now conducting an investigation into safety.”
Follow AD Amersfoortse Courant now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.

Load Date: November 27, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")