Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Protection moraine and forest
The Gelderlander
July 27, 2022 Wednesday
Rijk van Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 431 words
Byline: THED MAAS
Highlight: The moraine in Beek and Ubbergen and the forest in Groesbeek must be extra protected. Building homes here and elsewhere should not actually be done.
Body


Berg en Dal maps areas where housing development is not welcome
Thed Maas

Groesbeek/Ubbergen

Councilor Alex ten Westeneind (LOCAAL!) will map out which other areas in Berg en Dal should be handled with care. He will make a proposal to the municipal council in the autumn. The Berg en Dal municipal council recently adopted a motion to this effect by Ellen van Broekhoven, also from the LOKAAL! party.

The new environmental law was on the table. Building permits will be granted on the basis of this law from 1 January 2023. The mayor and aldermen will have an important role in this, but the city council wants a firm say. Because in the past year the municipal council was surprised several times because construction took place on the moraine.
New villas
Toon de Jong (LOCAAL!) previously mentioned in this newspaper the house that was built almost against the cemetery (a protected monument) at De Geest in Beek, several new villas on the Rijksstraatweg in Beek and the construction of a villa on the Sterrenberg.

In these cases, the mayor and aldermen used their authority (the so-called crumb arrangement) to deviate from the zoning plan, which determines what can be built somewhere. "That house next to the cemetery is much larger than the zoning plan allowed," De Jong said at the time. "And those villas are beautiful, but higher than allowed according to the zoning plan." The municipality did not make a fuss about this and found the deviation 'spatially acceptable'. It rejected objections from, among others, the Monument and Landscape Foundation and subsequently granted a permit.

The motion: 'Developments may take place that deviate from what was the original intention. The council wants to prevent it from being overwhelmed and is therefore looking for a balance between maintaining influence on being able to protect what is dear to itself and room for the council in the implementation.'

This is also being urged by the population. On June 23, a petition signed by 2,100 citizens was presented with the call to protect the moraine of Beek and Ubbergen with a clear policy.
Coalition agreement
Moreover, the government parties (LOKAAL! and Kernachtig Groesbeek) had already included in their coalition agreement that 'the moraine of Beek-Ubbergen is unique but is threatened by too much development. This requires strict implementation of the existing zoning plans and a high degree of care in developments in this area.'
Those villas are beautiful, but higher than allowed according to the zoning plan

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: July 26, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")