Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Heritage rules overhauled after mistakes
The Limburger
December 23, 2022 Friday
Venlo|Venray


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: HORST ON THE MAAS; Page 4
Length: 334 words
Byline: Eric Seuren
Body


Horst aan de Maas sweeps through the rules for heritage. The mistakes made last year during work on the castle ruins in Horst are partly the reason for this.
The municipality has been under supervision by the province since the beginning of the year as a result of those errors. During work in 2021, two pieces of damage were caused to the Huys ter Horst castle ruins. The province accuses Horst aan de Maas of having provided poor supervision and demands that Horst quickly get things in order.
Plan of approach
The province has now submitted an action plan for the restoration of the castle ruins, but it has not yet been formally assessed, councilor Elbert Joosten van Horst aan de Maas reports when asked. For that reason, Joosten does not want to say anything about the plan yet. In the meantime, the municipality is cleaning up internally. The first step is new regulations in the form of a heritage regulation. The current rules date from 2010, but are far from current due to the introduction of the National Heritage Act in 2016. Moreover, this regulation mainly pays attention to the rules regarding municipal monuments, but not regarding archeology or historic village views. "It's not that we were behind," Joosten emphasizes.
environmental code
"In consultation with the government, it was decided to wait with adjustments due to the arrival of the Environmental Act, which regulates many regulations for spatial developments. Unfortunately, that law has been postponed time and time again. We have now decided not to wait any longer." The intention is that the municipal council will be presented with the ordinance for approval in the course of 2023. The mayor and aldermen have now laid it down. The new rules, among other things, emphatically enshrine that archaeological locations cannot simply be disturbed, defaced or moved. Joosten: "We are also working on a new heritage policy, which will be added to the regulation later."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 22, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")