Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Director De Jonge is too non-binding'
The Limburger
June 17, 2022 Friday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: HOUSING MARKET BACKGROUND; Page 44, 45
Length: 943 words
Byline: Nrc, Mirjam Remie
Body


The government's measures for the housing market are not nearly strict enough, says the Council for the Living Environment and Infrastructure (Rli).
Management, that's pretty much the magic word when it comes to the stalled housing market. In recent years, it has almost been begged for: a government that does not leave everything to the market, but gets much more involved. A call that the new minister Hugo de Jonge (Public Housing and Spatial Planning, CDA) is happy to respond to. 'More control to break the housing impasse' was at the top of his construction and housing agenda in March.
But there is still room for improvement, notes the Council for the Living Environment and Infrastructure in the advice Providing shelter: managing the performance of housing associations, which was presented to De Jonge yesterday. "The minister has ambitious objectives for public housing," says chairman of the advisory committee Niels Koeman. "That is good, because the demand for social housing is enormous and continues to increase. A lot of people are in a pinch because they do not have have a suitable roof over their heads. We are thinking in the same direction as the cabinet for a solution, but our advice is a few degrees stricter."
"The 'carrot and the stick'", he continues, "how the minister will ensure that his plans actually happen is still unclear. The minister needs extra sticks behind the door to enforce his policy ."
More affordable housing
De Jonge wants an additional 600,000 'affordable' homes to be built by 2030 - owner-occupied homes up to 355,000 euros, social rental homes (with a rent of up to 763 euros) and mid-range rental homes (with a rent of up to 1,000 euros). However, it is not yet clear how he wants to enforce this. His hope is that binding performance agreements with municipalities, corporations and provinces will lead to them implementing his plans. There is also a 'Strengthening Public Housing Management Act' in the making, but little is described about this in the plans.
Another major policy change is the standard of 30 percent social rent per municipality. The percentage of social housing is still very unevenly distributed across the country: the large cities are (far) above it, while there are also municipalities that do not reach 20 percent. In this case too, it is not immediately clear how De Jonge wants to maintain his standard. Provinces must be able to intervene in extreme cases, says De Jonge.
"More needs to be done to ensure that these intentions are actually achieved," says Koeman. The government should legally determine how many social and affordable rental homes there should be, the Council believes. Municipalities should be required to make building land available by to include this in their environmental plans. A lack of building locations is an important reason why too few buildings have been built in recent years.
"I have no doubts about whether that is legally feasible," says Koeman, an authority in the field of environmental law and spatial planning law.
The new Environmental Act, says Koeman, can stipulate that approximately 30 percent social rental will be built at each new construction location. This percentage may differ slightly per region. “You can also stipulate that the private sector homes must be constructed at the same time as social rental. This way you prevent 30 percent of the land from lying fallow."
Loss
The Council expects such a measure will have a depressing effect on land prices. After all, it is impossible to earn money with social rent due to the low rents: developers are even cutting back on it. They compensate for that loss by building expensive rental or owner-occupied homes.
Who will pay for that loss? "Insofar as the land policy was the municipality's flapper, it will indeed spend a little less money," says Koeman. "Maybe a municipality should focus on it. But social rent is part of it, just as you have to do for a school in a new-build neighborhood." to assure."
Project developers and investors with land positions will also notice it in their wallets. "And I think farmers are the first: that's where the cycle starts, when they sell their land," says Koeman. "If there is mandatory social rent, less can be asked for the undeveloped land. But let's be honest : the returns in the private sector are very flourishing."
The Council does not think that less will be built if homes yield less. "On the contrary: this guarantees a mixed society. This is not an unfeasible proposal." The minister should also be given a "clear and sharp power of instruction", the Council believes, to enforce that municipalities and corporations make agreements on the number of social rental homes - and keep them. "Performance agreements are too non-binding," says Koeman. "In five years' time, corporations and municipalities can still say: 'We tried it, but unfortunately it didn't work out.'"
Finally, the Council is considering a kind of 'Climate Act' for public housing. Koeman: “A dot on the horizon. So that the course of public housing does not change too much with the composition of a cabinet. That law should clearly state the objective of the policy: mixed neighborhoods, accessible cities, no banlieues."
The Council's report is advice - but with a legal basis. Koeman: "The constitution states that the government has a duty of care for public housing. Little has come of this in the past ten years. The government is constitutionally obliged to catch up.”
The minister needs extra leverage for his policy.
Niels Koeman environmental law expert
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 16, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")