Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=There is a lack of direction in tackling particulate matter
The Limburger
March 25, 2017 Saturday
Weert


Copyright 2017 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 1
Length: 375 words
Byline: BY JAN HENSELS
Body


It is impossible to force companies to emit less particulate matter. This makes achieving European standards difficult, according to research by this newspaper.
NEDERWEERT/THE HAGUE
There is a lack of concrete means to enforce measures when the European particulate matter standard is exceeded at livestock farms.
This is evident from research by this newspaper. According to the government, particulate matter in the air shortens the life expectancy of local residents by up to several months. Tackling companies proves impossible.
The particulate matter problem in Limburg is particularly acute in Nederweert.
That municipality has thirteen places near livestock farms where the European standard is exceeded. Despite a decrease, this is the highest number of exceedances in the country. The Lung Fund calls this number worrying from a health perspective.
The Nederweert Leefbaar foundation believes that too much attention is paid to the economic interests of livestock farming and not enough to nuisance and health.
Despite the exceedances, the municipality of Nederweert cannot force livestock farmers to take measures because there are no regulations.
The municipality is trying to encourage livestock farmers to take voluntary measures.
The Ministry of Economic Affairs confirms that governments cannot impose sanctions on livestock farms if particulate matter emissions are exceeded. "A local exceedance of the particulate matter standard on livestock farms is often not caused by one company, but is the result of high regional background concentrations.
"It is therefore not appropriate in the system of the Environmental Management Act to hold individual companies accountable for exceedances by means of fines or sanctions," says a spokesperson.
The new Environmental Act, which should come into effect in 2019, would provide more opportunities to intervene.
Partly in response to a 2016 report on livestock farming and health from the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), the Ministries of the Environment and Economic Affairs want chicken companies in particular to do more about particulate matter emissions.
Discussions about this with the sector are at an impasse. LTO Netherlands wants lower emissions, but believes that companies should not suffer financially from this.
W HORIZON 2-3
PDF file of this document

Load Date: July 8, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")