Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Region InZicht - New Environmental Act cuts many unnecessary rules
The Gelderlander
July 4, 2015 Saturday
Nijmegen City


Copyright 2015 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION
Length: 355 words
Byline: HAYKE VELDMAN
Body


by Hayke Veldman
 After a year of asking questions, round table discussions, obtaining advice and debate, the House of Representatives passed the Environmental Act last week with a large majority.
 A new law that combines dozens of existing laws and hundreds of orders in council and/or ministerial regulations. It is the largest change in the law since Thorbecke's constitutional amendment.
 The Environmental Act ensures fewer and more efficient procedures and cost savings. A striking example to explain the new law is the new Nijmegen bridge over the Waal. 148 permits were required for the construction of De
 Crossing. For a bridge that is 1.4 kilometers long, that is no less than one permit per 10 meters.
 If Nijmegen wants a city bridge in the future or, for example, wants to extend the A73 over the Waal, this can be done with one permit, thanks to the new law.
 Nijmegen's working methods are also changing due to the law. This gives the municipality great freedom in implementing the law. Directors can make more considerations, but at the same time bear more responsibility for this.
 The law also explicitly focuses on early participation of residents and companies. The involvement of the environment at an early stage improves the quality of decision-making.
 As spokesperson for the VVD, I have made a number of amendment proposals that were adopted by the House of Representatives. An example of such a change is that it becomes possible for municipalities to realize housing in unique locations, where regulations currently restrict this. Municipalities will soon have the option to deviate from restrictive rules.
 Another example is that detailed welfare requirements are disappearing. And last but not least, steps are being taken to distribute the costs of sewerage more equitably and not just leave it to the homeowners. In short: the sewer polluter pays.
 So, the Environmental Act will soon also apply to the municipality of Nijmegen: fewer rules, more room for local customization and, as a central principle, greater trust between governments, residents and entrepreneurs.

Load Date: July 4, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")