Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Regional monuments committee will receive 'aesthetic' advisors
The Limburger
November 30, 2021 Tuesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5
Length: 273 words
Byline: René Willems
Body


The regional monument committee for the Heuvelland will be expanded with 'aesthetic' advisors. They look, among other things, at the integration of a building into the environment.
When renovating buildings that are designated as national monuments, the plans must first be submitted to an independent monument committee. Valkenburg, Eijsden-Margraten, Gulpen-Wittem and Vaals use a regional committee for this.
The Environmental Act will come into effect next year. This stipulates, among other things, that municipalities must set up a new advisory committee that must assess applications for work on an officially recognized national monument.
The four municipalities propose to appoint the existing regional advisory committee for this purpose. That is possible, but the committee must be expanded with 'aesthetic' advisors who not only look at the building itself, but also at the surroundings.
The committee's advice is not binding, but it does carry weight. "You can deviate from this as a council, but you must be able to substantiate this with strong arguments," explains Alderman Carlo Vankan van Valkenburg.
The costs are borne by the four participating municipalities. No definitive agreements have yet been made about their distribution, Vankan confirms. “But we will figure it out among ourselves,” he expects.
Valkenburg is the first municipality to comment on the new scheme. The other three municipalities have postponed this because the introduction of the Environmental Act has been postponed time and again. According to the latest reports, this law will come into effect on July 1, 2022.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 29, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")