Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Rheden doesn't like McDrive, but can't do anything
NRC
March 14, 2024 Thursday
1st Edition


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 10
Length: 1285 words
Byline: Arjen Schreuder Photos Dieuwertje Bravenboer
Body


ABSTRACT
Fast food restaurant report
McDonald's wants to open a restaurant in Rheden, including McDrive. The municipality says it is powerless, residents are resisting.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The houses in the area seem to have already fallen in value. Logical, say local residents, because who wants to live next to a McDrive? Emotions are running high in Rheden, east of Arnhem, just outside the Veluwezoom national park, a European protected nature reserve.
About six months ago, local residents accidentally learned that McDonald's wanted to replace the existing Chinese restaurant China Palace with a branch of their fast food restaurant, including a McDrive. Arlette Groenewoud: "My children heard it at school. A crazy plan, it seemed to me, and I didn't believe it at first. We went to investigate. And the next day it was indeed in the newspaper."
Groenewoud owns a small-scale holiday park on the Posbank, the highest point of the Veluwezoom. She took the initiative for a petition that has already been signed more than fourteen thousand times. "The fact that a McDonald's is being built here in the middle of nature without a municipality doing anything about it represents the degradation of our living environment," she says.
Neighbor Stephanie Alexander: "This plan hits like a pair of tongs to a pig. We are sitting here at the edge of a forest. We moved back here from the Randstad because of the nature, the peace and the greenery. And soon I will suddenly have a view of a McDrive."
Groenewoud: “When we drive off the highway to our houses, we drive towards greenery. That feels proud. Soon the first things everyone will encounter will be light, noise and litter, in short, everything we don't want."
Sculptor Anketien van Zellingen, who lives diagonally opposite the current China Palace, expects a large increase in nitrogen emissions from traffic, especially next to a protected nature reserve. "While nitrogen emissions are already high here, and the municipality wants to take measures to reduce them."
'Raids'
Responsible councilor Paul Hofman (GroenLinks) finds it all too unfortunate, he responds, that his municipality can only test the application against existing regulations. "We are very concerned about the nuisance to local residents, damage to nature, traffic safety and litter, but there is little we can do. That is a dilemma." The municipality has asked the province of Gelderland to conduct further research into the effects of nitrogen emissions on the surrounding nature reserve. "That could be a ground for refusal."
The councilor states that he felt "surprised" by the application for the permit by McDonald's. But how can this be reconciled with the fact that the plans had been assessed months earlier by the municipal aesthetic committee? Hofman: "The aesthetic committee has a project developer received a sketch of the building without knowing that the restaurant would be operated by McDonald's. It only became clear much later."
What the councilor considers "a justified point of criticism" is that Rheden, like many other municipalities, works with zoning plans that are not specific. For example, no distinction is made between a "small lunch restaurant" and "intensive catering" such as a McDonald's: "That is a vulnerability and also a lesson for the future: be clear and specific."
And what does he think of the criticism from activists that the municipality has failed to update the zoning plan, as a result of which the arrival of the restaurant may not be banned? The councilor: “That's not right. The current zoning plan is fifteen years old but has no influence on policy regarding nature reserves such as Veluwezoom, as they fall under the management of the province."
The members of the action group 'No Rheden for the Mac' live along a road that is quite busy during the day with commuters, students and recreationists. But in the evening and at night there is pleasant peace and darkness, they say, and then they regularly observe rare animal species. “We see red deer. A tie. A wolf. A grass snake. Birds of prey. Deer. And bats," says Anketien Van Zellingen.
Stephanie Alexander: "Years ago, our neighbor turned off his garden lighting at night at the request of the municipality, because it was disruptive to bats. The cycle path is also illuminated with soft green light to disturb wildlife as little as possible. And McDonald's will soon be allowed to alleviate all of that?"
There is great outrage among local residents, people from the wider area, and nature lovers. Van Zellingen: "The farmers here do their best to sow wild flowers and maintain the bee population. Soon visitors will throw their waste on the street and also in the forest."
No crossings
Road safety is also very important to local residents. "It's already difficult for us to cross," says Van Zellingen. "There are regular traffic jams here." That will only get worse because, opponents say, a McDonald's branch will attract many times the number of guests of the current Chinese restaurant.
It will lead to a huge increase in traffic movements, says Alexander. While currently, according to local residents, six thousand cars and 2,600 cyclists use the road every day, they believe that soon there will be approximately a thousand additional traffic movements.
Alexander: “This road is already not very safe. Many students from the surrounding villages take this road to Arnhem. When they return, they want to cross the road and eat a hamburger there. While there are no crossings and sidewalks. And while the cars drive along that cycle path to the McDrive."
Local residents accuse McDonald's of providing incorrect data about the number of guests, traffic movements and nature.
Van Zellingen: "A gentleman came here to see if there are bats here. 'in the afternoon. And he then finds that there are no bats here. That is ridiculous." The activists are now having another investigation conducted.
'Convenience serves people'
Alderman Hofman, in turn, accuses McDonald's of deliberately applying for the permit quickly before the introduction of the Environmental Act this year. “The old law is rigid and well-known. The new law gives the mayor and aldermen more room to deviate from the rules. They didn't want to wait for that."
The councilor also notes that McDonald's has also submitted applications elsewhere in Gelderland and Overijssel. "It appears that McDonald's has changed its strategy and wants to move closer to residential areas."
Very few of these assumptions are correct, says a spokesperson for McDonald's Netherlands. "The permit in Rheden was applied for last year because it turned out that way," reports 'impact director' Dolly van den Akker. And the fact that the company is aiming for more branches close to residential areas is "not a strategy".
McDonald's has 263 branches in the Netherlands, 141 of which have a McDrive. Van den Akker: “We are looking for locations that already have a catering permit. They must also be easily accessible, because convenience serves people. Of course we know that local residents have concerns and we would like to discuss them. We know that a petition has been signed fourteen thousand times. But do all those signatories come from the Rheden area? There are also many consumers who like to come and eat with us. We have a lot of fans."
Rheden doesn't like a McDrive. (But can't do anything about it)
It seemed like an idiotic plan to me, and I didn't believe it at first
Arlette Groenewoud Owner of holiday park
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Chinese restaurant China Palace. McDonald's wants to build a McDrive at this location.
A banner against the arrival of a McDonald's restaurant was defaced.
A group of activists protest against the arrival of McDonald's.

Load Date: March 13, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")