Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Closed meetings are sometimes necessary in the interests of Nederweert'
The Limburger
November 8, 2018 Thursday
Weert


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 2
Length: 507 words
Byline: BY PIETERNEL KELLENAERS
Body


 BACKGROUND BUDGET
NEDERWEERT
The new coalition in Nederweert is said to be open and transparent, but that does not seem to be working very well yet. Resilience in the interests of the municipality, responds Mayor Henk Evers.
In a self-declared open and transparent new coalition, it is not appropriate to hold many meetings in private. But in the first four months of the new coalition with JAN, Nederweert Anders and D66, discussions were held behind closed doors about the succession of the mayor, the arrival of hotels in Weert and Nederweert, the stables on Gerrisstraat and the plans for the center of Nederweert.
The secretive nature of the center plans in particular bothers both the opposition and the coalition. "We have had more private meetings than public council meetings," VVD leader Jorik Franssen said on Tuesday evening during the budget discussion.
 Need
Privateness is necessary if public access can harm the interests of the municipality, says Mayor Henk Evers in a response. "The legal report on the center plan development does not have to remain secret forever, but it can currently harm the financial interests of the municipality. No matter how uncomfortable, sometimes it is not possible in public. And otherwise I won't give you the information, that's it."
The Wijen plan, with a new supermarket for Jan Linders on Burgemeester Hobusstraat, will be discussed by the municipal council on November 20. It is expected that from that moment on, more clarity will become available about the 200,000 euros included in the unanimously approved budget for sub-projects in the center of Nederweert. And for the hotel in Nederweert, Evers promised, the zoning plan will be presented to the municipal council in February. Evers: "We must break ground on the construction of the hotel by September 1 at the latest, but we are dependent on third parties for this."
 Homework
The council also provided the council with homework. For example, the council must have figured out within a year how (starting) entrepreneurs and new initiatives that are socially desirable can benefit from the released agricultural real estate. Councilor Frank Voss wants to look at this in conjunction with the Environmental Act, which must be ready in 2021. But at the initiative of the CDA, the municipal council is now unanimously enforcing this at an accelerated pace to prevent vacancy and undesirable activities in the countryside. The coalition parties have also instructed the council to come up with targets in the budget next year on reducing emissions of particulate matter, odor and ammonia from livestock farming in rural areas. Proposals have also been adopted regarding more greenery, accelerated solar panels on the roof of the town hall and recognition of active young Nederweert residents.
CDA and VVD believe that the halving of the dog tax is being passed on too much to homeowners and property owners via the property tax.
The local levies and municipal taxes for 2019 will be submitted to the council in December.
Comment? pieternel.kellenaers@mgl.nl
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 9, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")