Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Rode Beek starts to meander again near Susteren
The Limburger
November 29, 2022 Tuesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: NATURAL RUN; Page 5
Length: 472 words
Byline: Geertjan Claessens
Body


The Rode Beek must start to meander along its full length as usual. Parts of the flow have already been addressed; Now it's the turn of the stretch between Millen and Susteren. That is literally groundbreaking.
Almost sixty years after the Netherlands returned the municipality of Selfkant to its eastern neighbors, the border is once again changing. The Rode Beek, which partly forms the border between the two countries, must regain its natural course within a few years. This will also make the map look different. That should not be a problem, because "water has no boundaries," says director Arnold Jansen of the Limburg Water Board. Parts of the stream have already been tackled on both the Dutch and German sides, so that the stream there meanders again as it did in the time before it was created. was cast in concrete. That constricting corset will also be removed within a few years between Millen (just across the border at Sittard) and Susteren, from the connection with the Saeffelerbach. This Monday morning, representatives of the parties involved on both sides of the border signature. A lot of water still needs to flow through the stream before the work can start in 2024, and be completed a year later. Due to the new Environmental Act, the Water Board does not expect to have any insurmountable problems .
Two variants
It has not yet been determined exactly how the Rode Beek will flow. There are two variants on the table. In the sober variant it winds slightly and the stream retains a stripped concrete surface. In the optimal variant, the stream is given plenty of space, creating more nature. How beautiful that can be can already be seen in other parts of the stream. The Germans have already tackled him at Tudderen and Süsterseel. Pictures show how blue and green go together here. This also applies to a large part of the Geleenbeek that has already been overhauled. Tackling this part of the Rode Beek is estimated to cost 5.7 million euros, of which the German parties will contribute 0.9 million.
Added value
Last year, 2,600 meters of the Rode Beek were moved just across the border, for which 20,000 cubic meters of soil were moved. That also yields a lot. Such as better protection against high water and other vagaries of climate change. And more tourists are drawn to the new nature, as mayor Norbert Reyans of the border municipality of Selfkant knows. This must also happen at the Westzipfel, the westernmost point of Germany. The place near Nieuwstadt and Isenbruch where the representatives sign their signatures is symbolic. The 'point' is already a tourist attraction - the stream should become one too. Although that is not a plus for everyone. Some local residents prefer not to have visitors in their 'backyard', says councilor Hub Meuwissen (PNES) of Echt-Susteren.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 28, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")