Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Call for rules for solar panel on monument
The Limburger
November 23, 2022 Wednesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: HERITAGE FOUNDATION; Page 5
Length: 413 words
Byline: Geertjan Claessens
Body


Solar panels already disfigure many monumental buildings in Sittard-Geleen. The municipality must put a stop to this, according to Jacob Kritzraedt, the heritage foundation.
Will we get Belgian situations in Sittard-Geleen? The Jacob Kritzraedt Heritage Foundation fears so. “Imagine that they fill the roofs of the Markt in Sittard with solar panels. That is not possible," says secretary Peter Vossen. This is likely to happen on monumental buildings in the Sanderbout district of Sittard.
The foundation responds to the lack of enforcement after some residents installed solar panels on their roofs. “I understand that people do that, especially now that energy is so expensive. But the municipality must draw up rules about this and enforce them," says chairman Theo Hanssen. He criticizes the earlier response of secretary Fons Gulikers of the municipal Spatial Quality Advisory Committee. He said that enforcement is difficult and that the municipality is thinking about adjustments. of the rules due to the many requests for the installation of solar collectors. It is still unclear what that policy will look like, the municipality said in a response.
Without a permit
Hanssen does not believe that a civil servant should speak out, while the responsibility lies with politicians. “People who properly apply for a permit will receive no response. But if others simply install solar panels without a permit, there will be no response," he outlines the practice. "The municipality only takes action when people sound the alarm. That is not policy!" Hanssen refers to Brunssum and Roermond, where policy has been made.
Hanssen would like to contribute ideas about drawing up rules. "We are often not involved now, even though we have expertise in-house." The (former) monument committee has also not met for a year and a half, Vossen adds. The municipality is considering how this consultation can be structured differently and better. .
Bright spots
There are bright spots. Local residents and organizations such as the Heritage Foundation were involved in the design of the Huis aan de Markt (the former V&D). Hanssen ends hopefully. "Maybe this can be the start of a new approach."
The municipality is taking up the challenge and is setting up a so-called Environmental Table, where stakeholders can discuss the implementation of the new Environmental Act in advance. The Heritage Foundation receives an invitation to one of the three 'thinking sessions' that the municipality will hold.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 22, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")