Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Roerdalen gets a fourth alderman
The Limburger
March 31, 2022 Thursday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 5
Length: 335 words
Byline: Jacqui Stroucken
Body


Roerdalen will have a fourth alderman, creating a five-member municipal executive in this municipality. The largest political party, Roerstreek Lokaal!, confirmed this yesterday.
In addition to the new councilor Loes Vestjens of Roerstreek Lokaal! from Posterholt, party member Roland Slangen from Melick will take a seat in the new council. PvdA/GroenLinks provides Jacqueline Aelen from Posterholt as alderman. For Democrats Roerdalen, Jan Smits from Herkenbosch remains on the plus side.
With three aldermen, Roerdalen recently lacked capacity within the council, as several sources have shown when alderman Eugenie Cuijpers had to drop out due to illness due to an overflowing portfolio. The municipality of Roerdalen is reportedly allowed to formally install a maximum of 4.75 aldermen. "The dossiers in the field of sustainable energy, housing and in the social domain are becoming increasingly complex," says party leader Willem van Pol of Roerstreek Lokaal! "As a councilor, you want to be there for the people and really want to work together with the residents." do, so not just meetings. There may be something in return. On the other hand, we want to handle public money carefully, so we are still considering whether it will be four full-time positions or three-point-something."
Roland Slangen adds that the new council will soon consist of three inexperienced aldermen. "That takes some extra effort, especially with heavy portfolios such as the Environment Act and refugee shelter. To ensure continuity, a fourth councilor is therefore not an unnecessary luxury."
The portfolios still have to be divided within the council. The coalition agreement also has yet to be reached. This was due to be negotiated again last night. So far, the agreement of intent to cooperate between the three coalition partners in Roerdalen has only formally been signed on the main lines of the election manifestos.
With three aldermen, Roerdalen recently lacked capacity within the council.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 30, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")