Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Rozendaal is ready, the village is finished
The Gelderlander
November 6, 2019 Wednesday


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 5
Length: 421 words
Byline: QUIRIJN VISSCHER
Highlight: Rozendaal's full treasury must be tapped. In part to give the energy transition a push in the right direction. This became apparent last night during the general reflections.
Body


Energy transition subsidy
When Jan Kramer, almost 90 years old, comes from Velp to the Rozendaal council chamber, something is going on. Yesterday, the co-founder of the oldest Rozendaal party, the Interests Community Rozendaal (BGR) from 1958, came to listen to the General Discussions. He saw that the city council decided to adopt the healthy municipal budget without major debate or motions. His conclusion: "Rozendaal is finished, the village is finished when I hear these comments."

Nevertheless, the three village parties gave reflections on Rozendaal's future. The treasury may be getting fuller, but Rozendaal must keep up with the times. The factions mentioned the energy transition. Rosendael'74 wants to introduce an investment subsidy of 1,000 euros per household for this purpose. "We want to fulfill our promise in 2020," said Rosendael'74 faction leader Corine ter Brugge. "We hear that people are waiting for the subsidy to arrive."

The Progressive Agreement Rozendaal party (PAK) was critical of the mayor and aldermen. The 2020-2023 budget contained 'virtually nothing' about the energy transition program, according to party leader Wilfred Jansen. Councilor Anton Logemann (PAK) had to agree with him. He promised improvement. All factions were also hesitant about Rheden's cuts in the social domain, a policy that Rheden implements one-on-one for Rozendaal. They don't want Rozendalers to suffer.

Mayor Ester Weststeijn said that Rozendaal is fortunate to have good financial circumstances. However, the municipality is not without worries, she pointed out. Weststeijn sees a large number of administrative projects emerging that the small municipality must deal with, together with residents. She mentioned the energy transition, keeping costs in youth care manageable and the introduction of the Environmental Act.

One theme received special attention. Rozendaal must again house refugees from mid-2021. These status holders must be given a place in one of the few rental houses in the village. These rarely become available. Councilor Marieke Albricht (Rosendael'74) wants to ask the Portaal corporation to reserve a vacant rental house now for status holders, so that Rozendaal can meet this obligation. She asked for and received support from the municipal council.

BGR figurehead Kramer, bearer of the Golden Rose of Rozendaal, could go home satisfied.
We hear
that people
wait until the subsidy is available

View the original page: page 5

Load Date: November 5, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")