Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Water park decision postponed
The Gelderlander
September 15, 2023 Friday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 452 words
Byline: FRANK HERMANS
Highlight: Will Waterpark Dommelsvoort experience new delays? Will the holiday park still look different, perhaps on a smaller scale? Or do the plans remain the same?
Body


Consequences unclear: 'Can lead to delay, but also to acceleration'
Frank Hermans

Cuijk

Yesterday, the Land van Cuijk announced that the adoption of the provisional master plan is being delayed. The broad building design will not be presented to the municipal council as planned in December, but sometime after January 1, 2024. This means that the procedure and consultation options will fall under the new Environmental Act.

Geert Versteegen of Land van Cuijk Environmental Association does not rule out that Topparken will now have to compromise on the old plans. "The idea behind the law is that ordinary citizens have more influence on their environment. Issues such as climate change, sustainable energy and changes in mobility are taken into account more carefully. An integrated assessment is mandatory. Will they be holiday homes or new homes or space for cleaner agriculture, which is greatly needed? I'm not ruling anything out, we'll see."

In August, councilor Maarten Jilisen said he expected that the first shovel would be broken for the construction of the holiday park between Linden and Beers next summer. Topparken wants to build 550 holiday homes here, on the Kraaijenbergse Plassen, an indoor and outdoor swimming pool, shops, catering, fitness and wellness areas.

But studies into the consequences for the environment are not yet ready, reports the municipality of Land van Cuijk. Due to a lack of manpower at the province, it has not yet responded. As a result, the intended deadline of mid-December for adoption of the Master Plan will not be met. "It's a pity, but care really comes before speed," says councilor Maarten Jilisen. An information evening about Dommelsvoort, planned for September 21, has been postponed for the time being.

According to the municipality, the basic principle remains that Dommelsvoort is developed as a 'recreation park as laid down in the zoning plan'. A spokesperson: "In principle, nothing changes in the method of assessing the master plan due to the transition to the Environmental Act."

Project leader Henk van Eldijk of Topparken does not know what the consequences will be. "It may lead to delays. But perhaps also acceleration because things are better streamlined and a transition period for a new law offers opportunities for this. Because it is a new law, the consequences are impossible to estimate at this time."

Van Eldijk also does not expect much change in implementation, because objections could already be submitted with the old rules. “If there are more, it will cause more delays. I think the end result remains the same."
Too bad, but care really comes before speed

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: September 14, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")