Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Argument with Senate over postponement of construction law; Conflict
The Senate wants a postponement of a construction law, but that endangers the Environmental Act
NRC
July 19, 2023 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: ECONOMY; Page 1
Length: 957 words
Byline: Sjoerd Klumpenaar

Rik Rutten
Dateline: Amsterdam
Body


ABSTRACT
quality control in construction
A construction law causes a conflict between the Senate and Minister De Jonge, which threatens its introduction on January 1.
COMPLETE TEXT:
'Out of office' is written on Hugo de Jonge's white cycling socks. In a cheerful Instagram video, the outgoing Minister for Housing (CDA) cycles from his office to the elevator, smiling broadly, where he looks back and gives a thumbs up. The message: I'm going on holiday without any worries.
Members of the Senate think very differently about this. Last week an argument arose between the Senate and De Jonge about the introduction of part of the Environmental Act. Since De Jonge refused to implement a motion by Ferd Crone (PvdA-GroenLinks), among others, senators have been considering follow-up questions and a possible debate after the recess.
The point is the implementation date of the Quality Assurance for Construction Act (Wkb); This would come into effect on January 1, 2024 as part of the Environmental Act. A majority of the Senate voted last week in favor of the motion to suspend the effective date.
De Jonge does not intend to implement that motion, he said in a letter on Monday. According to the minister, the Wkb is so intertwined with the Environmental Act that it would not work properly if they did not come into effect at the same time.
Senator Crone had initiated the motion together with BBB colleague Eric Kemperman. It bothers him that De Jonge, as a caretaker minister, ignores a motion from the Senate. "We can't send him away anymore, because he has already resigned. But that doesn't make him any less responsible."
Concerns about feasibility
It is not the first time that the Environmental Act has caused a stir in the Senate. The law bundles all legislation in the field of spatial planning and environmental permits. This should make matters regarding spatial planning simpler, but the fear of legal inequality and problems with ICT during testing made the Senate hesitant.
After five postponements, the Senate agreed to the introduction in March of this year, with effect from January 1.
The Wkb ensures that supervision of construction quality falls to market parties instead of municipalities. From next year, when constructing small offices and homes that require a permit, a 'quality assurance' will have to supervise the construction - an external company hired by the person applying for the permit. It must ensure better construction quality, lower costs of failed construction projects and a stronger position for consumers in construction.
But the Senate has concerns. There are doubts as to whether there are enough quality guarantees to assess all construction projects. Without a guarantor, a construction project will not be able to start, which could cause further delays in housing construction. There are also concerns that the use of market parties will make construction even more expensive.
There are also legal concerns. For example, quality assurance authorities must reject buildings if they do not meet one hundred percent of the building standards. For example, if the ceiling of a bathroom is five centimeters too low, then according to the Wkb the building would have to be raised until it is just right - with all the associated costs. The municipality may decide to tolerate it after all, but no policy has yet been drawn up for this. This means more legal uncertainty, which also raises the question of whether insurers are still willing to bear the risk during renovations, says Crone. "The minister has said that this will be worked on in October. That seems very short notice to me, because it is not clear whether they will be finished with it in October."
In his explanatory letter, De Jonge argues that there will indeed be enough quality guarantors, especially as the demand for their services increases - and that postponement will in any case not result in more quality guarantors.
But De Jonge cannot ignore the criticism from the Senate. Certainly not now that the coalition has fewer seats than before since the elections a few months ago. And since the two largest opposition blocs, the BBB and the shared list of PvdA and GroenLinks, have joined forces.
The two groups previously announced that they wanted to work together in the House of Representatives to demand wage increases and more money to combat poverty.
Postponement of the Environmental Act?
But that is not the only problem for De Jonge. Because now that the effective date of the Wkb is under discussion, the introduction of the entire Environmental Act is also coming under pressure.
While Kajsa Ollongren (D66), De Jonge's predecessor as minister on the housing construction dossier, was of the opinion that the Environment Act could also come into effect without the Quality Assurance Act, according to De Jonge this is now a different story.
According to De Jonge, the Wkb is already "intertwined" with the digital part of the Environmental Act to such an extent that problems will arise in implementation if the laws do not come into effect at the same time. In a letter to the Senate on Friday, De Jonge describes the Environmental Act as a "structure" from which "a stone cannot simply be removed", not even temporarily. According to the minister, other rules are "figuratively hanging in the air" and are "not readable and therefore not enforceable".
If both the Senate and De Jonge hold firm, another postponement of the Environmental Act cannot be ruled out.
Member of Parliament Crone says he is disappointed in De Jonge's attitude. "He is now taking a big risk: things could go wrong with this law from January 1 because there is still a lot of legal uncertainty for consumers and the construction sector."
The Construction Act puts the Senate at loggerheads with Hugo de Jonge
We can't send him away, he's already resigned
Ferd Crone senator PvdA-GroenLinks
Link to PDF
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Minister Hugo de Jonge on a Rotterdam construction site. Now that the effective date of the Wkb is under discussion, the introduction of the entire Environmental Act is also coming under pressure.
Photo Robin Utrecht/ANP

Load Date: July 18, 2023, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")