Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Living together in an old farm, five questions about inheritance
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 7, 2023 Thursday 11:15 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1117 words
Byline: Dorien Dijkhuis
Body


Small-scale living with like-minded people, on a former farmyard, that is inheritance sharing. Everyone has their own home, but with an eye for each other, nature and everyone's health. Sounds nice and a good solution to the housing shortage, but how do you arrange that?
His house had actually been too big for some time and the desire to live outside grew. Retirement was also in sight. Time to consider the next phase of life, Pieter Parmentier (72) thought seven years ago. Talking with his wife at the kitchen table, he came up with the idea of ​​inheritance: social, small-scale and sustainable living on a former farmyard. He started a website and found that thousands of people shared his dream. Three quarters of those interested are over fifty. What is it and what makes it so attractive? Five questions about inheritance.
1. What is inheritance?
"With inheritance, you live together in a small-scale housing arrangement: four to eight sustainable and affordable homes on a communal property," says Parmentier. "Preferably residents with different family compositions and ages. Actually it's nothing new. Just think of the hamlets of the past, which were also small communities in the countryside."
2. What do you share and what don't you share?
“Everyone decides that for themselves,” says Parmentier. "But the idea is to create a community in which people, just like in those hamlets in the past, also take care of each other and get along with each other. Everyone has their own home and front door, but the farm can be used for shared facilities, such as a workshop, a studio, a laundry room and a guesthouse. And also consider, for example, a communal vegetable garden.”
3. What makes it so attractive, especially for people over sixty?
"A survey we conducted shows that many people over 60 see the outdoors as an advantage. After retirement, they no longer have to live in the city to go to work and the children have long since left home, so that house is actually much too big. People often start considering the next phase of life between the ages of 60 and 70. Where do you want to live? How can you continue to live at home for as long as possible? That is also why inheritance is attractive: it is future-proof and future-proof.”
4. What makes inheritance future- and life-cycle-proof?
“You can design your own home and living environment yourself. For example, you can make the house and the yard on one level so that you can also access it with a wheelchair if necessary. Together you can generate energy so that you can live self-sufficiently. The community also makes it attractive for single people over the age of sixty. Unfortunately, social networks become smaller as we get older because more and more friends disappear. With a communal living area where you are part of the living community, there is no risk of loneliness."
5. Why is inheritance difficult to realize?
Inheritances and other small-scale housing in rural areas are not new. In the past, there were small communities of just a handful of households everywhere in the countryside. What is new is the regulations. People who want to share inheritance face various obstacles. It is not always easy to find a suitable location. For example, transforming a farm into a residential area requires a change in the zoning plan: from commercial to residential. Some provinces are more positive about this than others. Overijssel, for example, actively promotes citizen initiatives in the field of housing and rural development.
According to Erfdelen founder Parmentier, it will become easier to find yards in the future. Many farmers have stopped their business in recent years. That number is likely to increase further in the coming years. “It is still unexplored territory. The people involved in it are pioneering. But as a result, more and more success stories are emerging. These ensure that municipalities also recognize the added value of this way of living. This will also make regulations easier in the long term.”
Another reason for optimism: next year the new environmental law will come into effect, which, among other things, bundles 26 existing laws for building, environment, water, spatial planning and nature. This is good news for innovative cohabitation projects such as Erfdelen, because the law offers more room for private initiatives. Parmentier: "The attitude when assessing plans becomes 'yes, provided' instead of 'no, unless'. This creates space for private individuals, entrepreneurs and organizations to come up with plans.”
This is how you start a residential community
Have you become enthusiastic about inheritance and do you want to take on a project yourself? This step-by-step plan will help you get started.
1. First identify your personal wishes and form a core group of fellow residents. How do you want to live? With how many people? Of what ages and what family compositions? Which values ​​do you consider important? Sustainability? Do you want to plant a vegetable garden and generate your own energy? On Woongroups.nl you will find agencies that specialize in the development of inheritance-like residential projects. It's still pioneering, but you don't have to reinvent the wheel yourself. Sometimes you can also find supporters or parties through these types of organizations who are already working on a project that you can join.
2. Form an outline plan and have it visualized. This helps to clarify your plans and, for example, to get the municipality on board.
3. Contact the municipality where you want to start the residential group. On erfdelen.nl you will find municipalities that have a positive attitude towards it.
4. Look for a suitable yard. This can be done, for example, through the municipality, the Rabobank, stewards and real estate agents. There are also yards for sale on Funda, but sales sites and real estate agents are often in a hurry to sell, and arranging and sorting things out takes a lot of time. Feel free to count on a year to find a suitable place.
5. Draw up agreements and delve into the financial and legal side. Ownership and management of the property must be properly recorded. This can be done, for example, in an Owners' Association, a foundation or a cooperative. With a non-profit cooperative you can apply for subsidies, for example for planting a vegetable garden, a food forest, a windmill, etc.
6. Make construction plans and start an ecological study for your zoning plan in a timely manner, to map out whether protected plants, animals or areas are being affected. This can sometimes take a long time.
More information and inspiration via Erfdelen, Platform Collective Power, Ecodorp Boekel, Living with More, Knarrenhof.

Load Date: December 7, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")