Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Collaboration takes shape
Limburgs Dagblad
January 19, 2017 Thursday


Copyright 2017 Media Groep Limburg / Limburgs Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: C; Page 01
Length: 372 words
Byline: BY RONALD COLÉE
Body


THREE REGIONAL MUNICIPALITIES
VAALS
The municipalities of Vaals, Gulpen-Wittem and Eijsden-Margraten have taken a new step towards further intensive cooperation. They have chosen six spearheads from about thirty common topics that they will use in the coming six months to outline frameworks.
The intention is to create a relationship that speaks from one voice in regional files. The six spearheads they have identified are the introduction of the new Environmental Act, tourism policy, realization of the Trambaan cycle route, cooperation between field services, the social domain and legal support.
environmental code
According to Mayor Reg van Loo of Vaals, the introduction of the Environmental Act in 2019 will be the biggest challenge for the three municipalities. “In my opinion, that is a greater task than the three decentralizations in the field of healthcare that we have had on our plate.” Simply put, the government wants to simplify and merge the rules for spatial development, so that it will soon be easier, for example, to start construction projects. “Our task is to formulate a joint approach from this tangle of rules. This will be a difficult task, especially for vulnerable rural areas, because you have to deal with all kinds of different parties and interests.
Farmers, the tourist sector, the residents, but also the cultural-historical aspect of the landscape and the buildings,” says Van Loo. The municipalities want to present a joint council proposal at the end of June or early July - identical for all three councils - outlining the frameworks and ambitions in this area.
Do not avoid
The collaboration does not mean that Vaals, Gulpen-Wittem and Eijsden-Margraten will now avoid ongoing collaboration projects with Maastricht and other Heuvelland municipalities. Van Loo: “Take the Volunteer Center.
Eijsden-Margraten is not yet part of this, but Valkenburg is. We respect that, but in the future the basis will be with these three municipalities.”
According to him, this also applies to other issues: “We may participate in certain areas, but the core of the policy lies with the three of us. For example, we will also continue to be part of Sociale Zaken Maastricht-Heuvelland.”

Load Date: January 19, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")