Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=There is no ban on chimneys for the time being, which is why we are campaigning against nuisance wood burning
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 12, 2023 Tuesday 06:05 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 350 words
Byline: Harrie van Opstal
Body


An outright ban on chimneys for new construction is not an option for the time being. That is why Woerden is launching an information campaign to make people aware of the nuisance caused by smoke.
The municipal council informed Progressive Woerden and D66 of this. The two factions had asked in written questions what exactly Woerden is going to do about nuisance caused by, for example, wood stoves. Politicians know that many people experience significant inconvenience, especially during foggy weather.
In their questions, PW and D66 had suggested a fairly far-reaching measure. Forbid the installation of a flue in new construction, just as you can build a new-build house without a natural gas connection. “This makes the step of purchasing a stove more difficult,” they said.
Flue rules
But it's not that simple, the mayor and aldermen reply. This is currently not legally possible because the general Building Decree contains rules that a flue must comply with. And you cannot overrule that, the council emphasizes. Perhaps the Environmental Act, which will come into effect next year, will offer possibilities. But what is and is not allowed according to that law remains unclear.
Woerden does see that developers hardly opt for a fireplace or stove flue in new construction projects anymore. It can still occur in self-build projects.
Barbecues
That is why the mayor and aldermen are focusing on a public campaign. This will start this month and will continue into the summer period. After all, fire pits and barbecues in gardens can cause nuisance. Precisely because opinions about wood burning are strongly divided, the council has hired an agency to set up a balanced campaign.
Follow AD Woerden now also via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Want to know more? Read all about WhatsApp channels and how to use them here.
Would you also like to respond to a regional issue? E-mail to reader editors AD Groene Hart with first and last name and address (the latter not for publication). A comment can be shortened. Anonymous messages will not be posted.

Load Date: December 12, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")