Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Scouting and company make way for construction of 350 houses
The Gelderlander
September 27, 2021 Monday


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2
Length: 462 words
Highlight: Scouting Karmijngroep and earthmoving company Willems will have to move for the new construction plans in Winssen. 300 to 350 houses will be built on those lands.
Body


Job van der Meer

Winsen

This is stated in the provisional, first plan for housing construction in Winssen, which the municipality calls a structural model.

It is remarkable that the plans were online before they were discussed with Willems. "We know that these developments are taking place, but we do not yet know what they entail," says an employee. "Only letters have been circulated, nothing has been discussed with us."

Willems sent a letter to the municipality requesting a meeting. This letter can be viewed as an opinion on the plans on the municipal website.

The structural model does not make it clear where the company should be moved.

Discussions have taken place with the scouts, says Mieke Duitman of Karmijngroep Winssen. She is moving from the Kennedysingel to a green area along the Van Heemstraweg. “As far as we are concerned, that place is fine. But we only renovated the farm where we are now in 2005. The building is fairly new and will have to be demolished when we move."

The scouting board still has to meet about it, but will undoubtedly have a wish list, says Duitman. She already sums up a few things: relocation should not cost the scouts anything, the new site should not be too close to buildings and there will have to be a new building before the old one is demolished. "We don't yet know exactly how much land we will get. None of that has been discussed yet.”
Another 75 houses
The structural model is a rough sketch. The exact implementation of the housing plans will only take place once residents have submitted their ideas and the municipal council has established the resulting Housing Development Program. Construction is only allowed once the zoning plan has been changed. In the new environmental law this is called an environmental plan.

300 to 350 homes will be built on the site of the sites along Geerstraat and Kennedysingel and on the adjacent orchards, and another 75 homes are planned along streets where there are now ribbon developments. These homes will be located between existing houses on Molenstraat, from the village to Deijnschestraat, Geerstraat, Leegstraat and Plakstraat to Koningstraat and Ir. from Stuivenbergweg to number 37.

Of the 375 to 425 homes in total, approximately 250 will be built until the year 2030, after which the rest will be built until 2040. Half are lifelong and fall into the cheap category.

The entire plan for Winssen can be found on the municipality's website until October 18. Here you will find more information about the structural model. Residents can give their opinion during discussion tables in the Paulus Meeting Center during the 'Winssen Week'. This will take place from September 27 to 30. Registration for the discussion table is mandatory via www.beuningen.nl/woningbouw.

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: September 26, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")