Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=SGP out for revenge: civilians are the enemy
The Gelderlander
March 4, 2023 Saturday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 16, 17
Length: 611 words
Highlight: The SGP wants to prohibit environmental organizations from going to court to hold public administration to its own laws. A fool, says lawyer Wösten.
Body


The SGP - a small organization with a small support base - wants to ban environmental organizations from access to justice because they are small organizations with a small support base. Let's call this animal by its name: the SGP is out for revenge.

Urgenda and Mobilization revealed that our public administration is making a mess of important environmental issues, such as climate change and the biodiversity crisis. This also made it clear that the House of Representatives is doing its job poorly. How come the House of Representatives accepted the Nitrogen Approach Program (PAS) in 2015? Why was a lawsuit necessary against the government over its inaction in tackling life-threatening greenhouse gases?

The rule of law has never been a peaceful asset. Long ago, public campaigns told us that the environment belongs to everyone. Anyone could then go to court with an environmental issue, in jargon the actio popularis. Few people used this procedural law, which makes sense. Conducting lawsuits is expensive and requires specialist knowledge.

Yet twenty years ago the actio popularis was abolished. With this change in the law, only those living directly in the vicinity of environmental plans could challenge environmental permits. Some politicians have no respect for the rule of law. They have that in common with criminals. The less control by the judge, the better.

Subsequently, the Crisis and Recovery Act of 2010 made conducting environmental lawsuits considerably more difficult by imposing a requirement for a large group of decisions that a complete notice of appeal had to be submitted within six weeks at the latest. Plowing through many technical reports in six weeks about noise pollution, natural damage or hazardous substances, for example, is often an impossible task.

A complete scumbag is the change in the law of 1 January 2013, which means that citizens and interest groups may only submit arguments to the court that affect their direct interests. This is the so-called relativity requirement. This is a dramatic limitation for citizens to be able to litigate about environmental decisions. For example, a local resident who does not live directly next to nature and who opposes an environmental permit decision for Tata Steel or Schiphol is no longer allowed to say anything about nature interests. There is no sensible argument for this. The board must simply adhere to the law. With this change in the law, the environment no longer belongs to everyone and only environmental organizations can have environmental decisions fully reviewed by the courts.

If it were up to the SGP, many environmental organizations would now be denied access to justice. With this motion, the SGP shows itself to be an enemy of the citizen, the environment and the rule of law. An act of revenge against organizations that do not allow themselves to be silenced on important environmental issues such as Tata Steel, Schiphol, the A27 or Groningen gas extraction.

And there is more in the pipeline. The draft Environmental Act threatens to make applicable environmental standards 'flexible'. The judge can then no longer bind the public administration to concrete environmental standards. Many are in danger of not discovering this until it is too late.

Moreover, the SGP's revenge motion has virtually no chance. The international Arhus Convention guarantees environmental organizations access to justice. That does not make this attack on the rule of law any less alarming. Especially now that CDA and VVD also signed the motion. Rutte's accusatory finger about the Polish rule of law now takes on a different meaning. Will Cool Netherlands follow Poland?

Valentijn Wösten administrative law lawyer (active for Molbilization for the Environment, among others)

View the original page: page 16, page 17

Load Date: March 3, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")