Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Soest tackles flooding well, but does little against heat and drought, say researchers
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 16, 2024 Tuesday 05:53 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 275 words
Byline: Piet van Dijk
Body


Are municipalities doing enough against climate change? Not everywhere. Take Soest for example. It does a lot to limit flooding. But there is still little to do with the nuisance caused by heat and drought, according to a critical report.
The Soest Court of Audit, an independent research institute, therefore believes that an integrated climate adaptation plan should be drawn up. It's quite piecemeal what has been done in the past five years.
They are right, says the municipal council of Soest. But in the background we are working hard on creating environmental programs. This will soon contain everything about flooding, heat, drought, groundwater and water quality, Soest promises.
Disconnect rain pipe
Soest should provide residents and companies with more information and encourage them to do something about heat, drought and wetness, the Court of Audit believes. Residents can de-stone and green their garden. Or disconnect the rain pipe from the sewer. Companies can construct infiltration crates or wadis (shallow 'pits') to quickly drain excess water.
Soest is not obliged to do everything. The Environmental Act only requires a duty of care for the sewer, the processing of rainwater and limiting adverse consequences of the groundwater level. Soest does that very well. There is even a rainwater structure plan for the Korte and Lange Brinkweg, which are regularly flooded.
The municipality of Soest has received 206,000 euros from the national Delta Program on Spatial Adaptation to implement concrete measures. It is also recommended to make performance agreements with housing associations. The council will discuss this on April 25.

Load Date: April 16, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")