Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Tension around Fifth Village decision is rising
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 25, 2024 Thursday 03:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 581 words
Byline: Peter Schilthuizen
Body


It is still not certain that the Zuidplas municipal council will give the green light for the zoning plan for the construction of the Fifth Village in the Central area of ​​the Zuidplaspolder. Even after a five-hour meeting, the parties had not yet reached an agreement this week.
Time is running out, because a decision must be made in the municipal council on May 14. Shortly afterwards, the Municipalities Preferential Rights Act (WVG) expires and the municipality therefore loses the right to first purchase land from landowners in the area.
“It is not yet a done race for us,” Pien Meppelink (CDA) summarized her party's position. The CDA is disappointed with the response of the mayor and aldermen to no fewer than 17 amendments and motions that the party submitted and co-signed to adjust the zoning plan. “Behind every motion and every amendment is now pretty much 'disadvised'. What then is the influence of the council?” she wondered out loud in despair.
Water management
The water management in the future housing location of 8,000 homes is also a concern for Meppelink. And especially the conflict between the municipality and the Schieland and Krimpenerwaard water board. The water board has higher ambitions when it comes to guarantees for water safety than the municipality. Meppelink criticizes councilor Jan Willem Schuurman's argument that Zuidplas does not have the money for more water management measures. “With that argument, the bill for flooding is being postponed to the future.”
Delay
The CDA's doubts also exist among the VVD, PvdA/GroenLinks, Groep Van and Nieuw Elan Zuidplas, all of which have not yet decided whether to approve the zoning plan. VVD therefore calls for a decision to be postponed and wants to accept the expiry of the WVG. An alternative is not to adopt a zoning plan at all, but to opt for an alternative procedure under the new Environmental Act. The advantage would be that the municipal council and residents would then have more influence on the development of the area, partly because procedures would then be conducted for sub-areas. There is a risk that problems with land acquisition will arise due to the expiry of the WVG, so that the entire project could be derailed.
ChristenUnie/SGP, Groep Pouwels and D66 are therefore strongly against this and do not want any delay.
“Postponement is a cancellation,” thinks Ryan Adriaanse (D66). “Then the Province and Rotterdam will take over,” he fears. Peter Molenaar (Christian Union/SGP) adds: “Postponement is absolutely not an option for us. You don't know what's going to mess you up.”
Jan Baas (SP) wants to go along with the postponement. His party is the only one that is completely against the arrival of the Fifth Village. Baas thinks the project is too big for a municipality like Zuidplas. As an alternative, he would prefer to see a maximum of 2,400 homes in Nieuwerkerk-Noord, in addition to the Vijfde Dorp location in the Zuidplaspolder.
Participation
An annoyance among almost all parties is the way in which the Zuidplas council has so far dealt with the interests of residents and companies in the central area of ​​the Zuidplaspolder where the Fifth Village is to be built. And although improvement has been promised in the area of ​​communication with and participation from them, it remains a major issue for the VVD in particular. “The original residents and entrepreneurs have not been sufficiently accommodated. This is evident from the inadequate response to the 89 views that have been submitted,” said Ferry van Wijnen (VVD). “There must be prospects for these people quickly.”

Load Date: April 24, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")