Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Staatsbosbeheer respects resistance to new forests
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 11, 2023 Monday 09:59 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 443 words
Byline: Eric Wijnacker
Body


Staatsbosbeheer respects the position of the West Betuwe municipal council that the open landscape of the De Steendert nature reserve, between Est and Ophemert, may not be converted into a forest. Residents of De Steendert react happily.
There will be further consultations in the coming year between the municipality and Staatsbosbeheer about the desired nature development in De Steendert. After local residents protested against the latest nature development plans in De Steendert, the municipal council adopted a clear motion not to plant forests in the traditionally open Betuwe landscape.
The council would make a decision on this in December. Staatsbosbeheer indicated that it would first consult with the West Betuwe council before a decision was made.
More variety through forest
Staatsbosbeheer thought it could offer more variety to nature in the Betuwe with the new forest. But local residents see this as a violation of the typical Betuwe open landscape. Councilors Jacoline Hartman and Joke van Vrouwerff visited De Steendert and consulted with Staatsbosbeheer. They indicated that there is no political support for the forest plan. The aldermen have now announced, in response to council questions from the VVD, that Staatsbosbeheer respects the motion.
Melvin Könings, one of the residents of De Steendert, is delighted: "That tree plan in De Steendert will definitely not happen, fortunately local democracy sometimes works well. Fortunately, Staatsbosbeheer's megalomaniac plan was stopped in time."
Further consultation on tree planting
Next year, both aldermen and Staatsbosbeheer will continue to discuss tree planting in the municipality of West Betuwe, because more trees are welcome. After the visit to De Steendert, Staatsbosbeheer asked the Rivierenland Environment Agency to suspend the environmental permit application for one year until November 30, 2024.
Könings: "This means that the application is still pending, but in fact the genie is now completely out of the bottle. Moreover, from January 1, the same Environmental Service will have to apply the Environmental Act, which requires an extensive participation process in these types of projects. And because there is a lack of local support, you will see that if this proposal were to be put on the table again, it would be very difficult to implement. Residents, residents of De Steendert and the municipal council have repeatedly indicated that they do not want to have a forest created in De Steendert."
On November 30, 2024, it will become definitively clear what the plans of Staatsbosbeheer in De Steendert will be. First, further consultation will follow with residents and the municipality, among others.

Load Date: December 11, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")