Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Cities must become more of the people'
The Limburger
October 23, 2019 Wednesday
Heerlen


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 537 words
Byline: BY SIEBRAND VOS
Body


 FUTURE
HEERLEN
Douwe Dijkstra from Heerlen My City was at a city conference in the US this month. What did he get there? "There are many ways to make the city 'more about the people'. Many cities are working on that."
Participating in a city conference with five hundred participants means a week of hard work, Douwe Dijkstra noticed this month in America.
From early in the morning until late in the evening, the chairman of the center organization Heerlen Mijn Stad went from panel to presentation. Place of action was Chattanooga, Tennessee.
Dijkstra: "They are all working on the New Way: how do you make room for 'social impact' when a city is developing."
Dijkstra means that 'the city must become more about the people'.
Something that may go without saying in this day and age, but is also included in the law in the Netherlands. Dijkstra: “The upcoming Environmental Act mentions this explicitly. That's why it's better to start early. We all have to learn something like that.”
The underlying idea is that administrators have long given the impression that the city was theirs, says Dijkstra. But municipalities have recently been given more tasks by 'The Hague'. And if the municipality and residents become more 'owners' of developments and problems, then residents must be given the opportunity to take responsibility.
 Homeless people
Although the Netherlands is very different from America, Dijkstra gained inspiration in Chattanooga. “One of the cities had problems with homeless people in a park. They have set up a games distribution point there, with social workers behind the counter. In one year, 94 people were helped back into work, just by being there every day. We once created a chess spot on Betaplein in Heerlen.
You could expand something like this across the city if you redesign squares: Wilhelminaplein, Van Grunsvenplein, Raadhuisplein."
America has many community gardens, Dijkstra further heard. “Small initiatives with big results: healthier eating, social cohesion. Initiatives that are financed through funds in which the government, among others, puts money. Every country does it differently. In Norway, 'social tables' are organized, for example to break the ice between 'old' residents and status holders. In Tampa, Florida, companies and institutions are coming out by setting up a pop-up office in a park."
 suggestions
Heerlen does not stand still. Idea Market was embraced, which generated suggestions for after the demolition of the Plu. Another example is the Gebrookerbos project, where small-scale initiatives are getting off the ground. Together with Landgraaf and Kerkrade, Heerlen will explain how greening is being done in consultation with residents on City Day in The Hague this month.
Citizens do want it, Dijkstra knows. “A small example is World Clean-up Day in Heerlen. If you make a call, fifty people will come to pick up litter.
Parents with children." Another example in Heerlen is the Vijf Pleintjes. Dijkstra: "A citizens' initiative to bring excitement and meetings."
 They are all working on the New Way: how do you make room for 'social impact' when a city is developing. Douwe Dijkstra
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 23, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")