Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Accumulation of procedures surrounding Chemelot
The Limburger
March 27, 2020 Friday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: ENVIRONMENTAL PLAN; Page 5
Length: 337 words
Byline: Erwin Schmidt
Body


The government wants to introduce the Environmental Act next year in order to merge rules for the design of the living environment. Some government regulations are transferred to the municipalities.
From 2021, each municipality must have one (temporary) environmental plan for its own territory. Current zoning plans and spatial management regulations are brought together there. Municipalities have until 2029 to further develop the environmental plan to meet all the requirements of the law.
The environmental plan also includes rules on dealing with nature and water, heritage, noise and infrastructure. The intention is initially to 'transfer' existing zoning plans and rules into that municipal environmental plan and to coordinate them. The problem is that Chemelot, which falls under a provincial umbrella permit, also borders or falls within the municipalities of Beek, Stein and Sittard-Geleen. These municipalities must also include their part of Chemelot in their environmental plan.
There is a danger that the three municipalities will then lay down different rules, after which Chemelot will have to comply with various regimes. That is why all parties involved want to jointly draw up a sub-plan for Chemelot. Rules that are then later 'plugged in' to the individual environmental plans. The parties want to determine before the summer how they will approach this.
Drawing up the sub-plan has similarities with other ongoing processes, such as that of the Chemelot Safety Vision on improving safety. But the Master Plan 2030 (a vision of the future of Chemelot) is also related. Just like the provincial area vision yet to be determined, which determines which new developments are still possible.
The province calls for proper coordination of communication. "It must be prevented that residents of Chemelot no longer see the forest for the trees due to the multitude of parallel procedures, processes and routes, and are no longer able to follow what is going on."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 26, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")