Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Stein sees blueprint heritage as a national example
The Limburger
March 21, 2019 Thursday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2019 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 8
Length: 471 words
Byline: BY ERIC VAN DORST
Body


 PILOT
STEIN
Stein views his heritage policy as a blueprint for the protection of heritage that can be applied throughout the Netherlands. The municipality will therefore register it as a pilot for other municipalities.
All municipalities must map the heritage within their borders and include rules for protection in an environmental plan. This requires an integrated approach to inventory, selection and protection.
The Steinse council decided to do this in 2016, in anticipation of the Environmental Act that will be introduced in 2021. This law requires, among other things, that all heritage is weighed and given protection, in addition to national monuments for which this is already properly arranged. Various municipalities already have a list of local monuments, also with the intention of protecting them as best as possible.
What is special about the approach in Stein is that, in consultation with citizens and historical associations, spatial heritage in the broadest sense of the word has been meticulously mapped over two years by monument care advisor Har van der Borgh of Buro4 in Roermond and civil servant Tom Willems. "We have tried to anticipate the new law as much as possible and make it an example project for others," says Van der Borgh.
The council discusses the extensive document Heritage Policy 2019 Municipality of Stein today. After adoption, there will be a subsidy scheme and, in accordance with current regulations, a zoning plan for the whole of Stein.
It lists all heritage, including protection rules yet to be developed for buildings, small monuments such as crosses and chapels, settlement structures, landscapes and historically valuable greenery.
 Knowledge
The broad and in-depth approach has also put the mutual connections between the heritage on the map, which, according to Van der Borgh, would not have been discovered with a fragmentary approach. "We are of course prepared to share the knowledge and experience gained with other municipalities," says councilor Gina van Mulken (SB, Cultural Heritage). In order to draw attention to it as a national pilot and have it recognized, she will talk to the National Cultural Heritage Agency.
It will then also be discussed whether Stein can draw up an Environmental Plan in anticipation of the new law, instead of a zoning plan.
Consultant Theo Custers from the Support Center for Archeology & Monument Care in Roermond applauds Stein's initiative. “If this is a good approach, municipalities do not have to reinvent the wheel. It is fine if there is a script that is supported by the government service and the ministry."
 Recognition
Van Mulken hopes to receive this recognition. “That would do our municipality, as one of the oldest inhabited regions in the Netherlands, due honor. As a small but ambitious municipality, we would be extremely proud of that."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 21, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")