Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Strict requirements for living in rural areas
The Limburger
November 20, 2018 Tuesday
Roermond


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 2
Length: 427 words
Byline: BY PIETERNEL KELLENAERS
Body


 OUTSIDE AREA
NEDERWEERT
The brake that Nederweert put on living in rural homes two years ago is loosening somewhat.
Provided that health is not at risk, a permit can be granted for this, according to the council.
Because rural homes are often close to livestock farms, which are mainly former agricultural farm homes, living there poses a risk to public health. Research increasingly indicates that there is a relationship between health complaints and the proximity of intensive livestock farming. Although the nature and extent of this connection are not yet completely clear, the municipality of Nederweert does not want to take any health risks. At the same time, the period during which permits were temporarily no longer issued is now ending.
 Lines
According to the Municipal Executive, living in a rural home in a rural area can only be permitted if the living environment meets the same rules as a civilian home in a residential area, i.e. the same rules for odor, particulate matter and noise pollution.
The emission of endotoxins (cell wall residues of dead bacteria that can cause pneumonia) will be a decisive factor in whether or not a permit is granted. No cooperation is given at all in goat farms.
In practice, the measure will mean that almost only rural homes on arable or greenhouse horticulture companies will meet the strict requirements and may be occupied. It is therefore not expected that the strict requirements will provide a solution for the large amount of vacant agricultural real estate that Nederweert already has and is predicted to increase.
 Local council
The municipal council is discussing the council's proposal regarding homes in the rural area today. If the proposed requirements are adopted, this will be a provisional solution.
In the context of the new environmental law that should come into force in 2021, the subject will be re-examined.
The same rules will apply to Ruimte voor Ruimte homes in the countryside (94 and 12 building titles in Nederweert) as to a civilian home.
 Council of State
More than three years ago, the Council of State came to the conclusion that rural homes cannot be automatically legalized as residential homes because this threatens to put farmers in trouble if they want to expand their business.
Nederweert decided in 2016 not to issue permits for living in rural areas for two years.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 20, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")