Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Tough food, delivered with humor
The Limburger
April 28, 2020 Tuesday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: INTERVIEW; Trees van der Schoot; Page 6, 7
Length: 843 words
Byline: Gertie Driessen
Body


Trees van der Schoot is an atypical lawyer. She thinks so too, by the way. In contrast to her profession, the Roermond woman - who specializes in spatial planning - is averse to unnecessary rules and does not use difficult jargon. Let Trees talk about the Environmental Act and you will not only understand it; you are still in stitches from time to time. If only because of the imagery she uses. Well, I can go straight into the neighborhood," she chuckles dryly.
'Pretty complicated'
It is not surprising that people from Roermond from Limburg to Groningen are asked to provide explanations and explanations to civil servants, colleges, councilors and all kinds of authorities. So about the Environmental Act. A new law that will have quite an impact for everyone. Introduction as of January 1 has already been postponed until further notice. A good thing according to Van der Schoot, because many municipalities are far from ready for this. Let alone that they have informed their citizens.
The Environmental Act may be intended as a simplification because it replaces many laws and regulations, but according to Van der Schoot it remains "quite complicated". "That is why I tailor my presentations to the company. Who do I have in front of me? What do they need to know? ?" For this story we focus on the citizen; what will change for him?
Most important change: citizens become more involved in and responsible for their living environment. He can participate in all decisions. First of all, it is the environmental vision, the dot on the horizon that every municipality must set first. Where do we want to go? Which values ​​do we consider important? The concrete elaboration will be in programs and the rules (including those for which permits are required) will be contained in an environmental plan. Sounds abstract, but according to Van der Schoot it doesn't have to be. At least, if you as a municipality know how to make the correct translation to your residents.
She mentions the municipality of Hoeksche Waard as an example. It has its dot on the horizon - "you should avoid the word vision" - contained in 'the Hoeksche Waarden'. The citizens who contributed their ideas became 'the Value Makers' and the concrete programs are laid down in 'Hoeksche Werken'. All this not in meters-thick files, but in digestible chunks and, above all, readable language on the website "You click a few times and you know everything you need to know," says Van der Schoot, who praises the South Holland municipality for its "most." user-friendly environmental vision".
Damage claims
Such a clear vision is also useful for project developers, because they will soon have to involve citizens in their plans at an early stage. At least, if they don't do that, there is a good chance that the municipality will not cooperate or that they will be dismissed in court. "If a developer is smart, he first immerses himself in such a municipal vision," says Van der Schoot. "Then he can ensure that his plans fit in. Because if it is good, that is also what the residents want. ." Because citizens are allowed to participate in the discussion, the possibilities for planning damage claims will soon be significantly reduced.
To illustrate the intention of the new law, Van der Schoot gives a concrete example based on the development of the last part of the Roer Delta in Roermond. “First of all, you look at what the value of that environment is. Then in this case you end up with water, greenery, recreation. Then you see what fits in terms of design. If this includes residential construction, you do not plan 400 homes in advance, as is currently the case. Or 800 parking spaces. And you certainly aren't going to let citizens participate in the discussion as if everything is still open. That creates wrong expectations."
"Roermond wants everything in the Roerdelta, just as we always want everything in the Netherlands," says Van der Schoot. "You also have to set priorities. Then it is useful as a municipality to choose a leitmotif. Just like in music. Take Utrecht "They have health as a guiding principle for their environmental vision. That is why they want fewer cars and use one car per house to be built. That means daring to make choices."
Another important aspect for citizens: the new law must provide tailor-made solutions and leaves much more to municipalities. A kind of decentralization, just like with the Social Support Act. "If someone shouts at a birthday party that 'you don't need a permit for that', that could be very different in your municipality," van der Schoot explains.
Trudge
De Roermond, who has been studying the Environmental Act since 2014, is enthusiastic about the philosophy behind it, but has her doubts about whether the law is being applied as it is intended. That is why she travels through the country with enthusiasm to explain the spirit behind the Environmental Act. She succeeds wonderfully in this despite the tough costs. “I often see councilors trudging along. Like 'oh dear, it's about the Environmental Act and then there will also be a lawyer'. Then I stand there with my presentation with simple pictures and I see them bounce back. I have happy faces everywhere.”
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 27, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")