Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Team teaches civil servant clear language
The Limburger
October 23, 2019 Wednesday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2019 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 1
Length: 378 words
Byline: BY PETER WINTERMAN
Body


 EXPERTS
THE HAGUE
The government is appointing a brigade of a hundred language experts to make government letters more understandable. The language coaches travel into the country to help civil servants write clearer texts.
"We want to ensure that people can participate and immediately understand what letters from the government are about," says State Secretary Raymond Knops of the Interior, who is kicking off the project in Roermond today.
The language brigade starts with fifty experts, which should increase to a hundred next year. According to the government, there are 2.5 million Dutch people who do not always understand government letters. "Some of the people are ashamed of this and do not dare to ask what exactly is meant," says Knops. "They then get into problems, for example because they do not pay a tax bill. By communicating more clearly, the government can save a lot of misery."
The 'Direct Clear Brigade' will help government agencies, municipalities and provinces in rewriting texts. The brigade also organizes training courses. The aim is to improve the hundred most frequently sent government texts on letters, forms, leaflets and the Internet this year.
State Secretary Knops himself experienced last week that texts could be a lot clearer. A vacancy appeared online at his own ministry for the position of 'Interface Manager Strategic Management Organization Digital System Environment Act'. "I immediately thought: what is this?" says Knops about the incomprehensible job description. "I asked the responsible official how this could have happened. We are not doing it right this way."
The government is allocating three million euros for the language brigade. Seven employees at the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations will be released to manage the brigade. "We have to show that we are serious about the goal of communicating more clearly," says Knops. The hundred coaches will be paid from the three million euros and there will be an 'aid package' for government agencies.
This includes sample letters, a glossary with alternatives to official jargon and a checklist for writing in clear language.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 23, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")