Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Municipalities can do virtually nothing about unhealthy food; Fast food

NRC
July 29, 2022 Friday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 8
Length: 2014 words
Byline: Martine Kamsma

Geertje Tuenter Photo Dieuwertje Bravenboer
Body


ABSTRACT
Report Ede
If municipalities want to do something about the fast food supply, they need additional legal options, research shows. But that is sensitive. The first food councilor in the Netherlands: "How often I am told: you are not going to decide what I eat."
COMPLETE TEXT:
To the first question, what is possible or impossible for the councilor to control the fast food supply in his own municipality, Leon Meijer (Christian Union) says with some mockery: "Everything is impossible." Meijer, the first 'food' councilor of The Netherlands, has just arrived by bike and is peering over the large mountains of sand where the new Ede-Wageningen train station is to be built. That new station is the reason we are at this location in Ede: the councilor wants the station shops, managed by NS, to open soon. not being stuffed with unhealthy snacks.
The World Food Center, an 'interactive museum' about food, will open next year near the station. In addition, Ede baptized itself as a 'food municipality' in 2013. Meijer: "We have many farmers in the area and the region is home to 80 percent of the agri-food research in the Netherlands", mainly because of the University of Wageningen. At the same time, Ede has the problems that every municipality has: increasing obesity, especially in poorer neighborhoods.
Meijer believes that so much attention is paid to food, and a station hall that smells like frying fat does not fit in with that. "So I asked the NS: 'What are you going to do?' Well, the answer was: 'The RAL colors of the stair railing are fixed. And everyone else too.' In short, nothing at all is possible. You get what you see at every station." Croissants from the Kiosk and croquettes from Smullers.
After a year of Meijer's involvement, "something has started to move", he says. Albert Heijn is considering a To Go with a more prominent healthy range. The NS will open a pop-up shop in September with healthy local products. But the leading factor is the NS "the needs of travelers".
Meijer turns a quarter turn. A little further on, a new problem arises. Where art silk manufacturer Enka once stood, a new district is under construction. "And what did I read three weeks ago: there will be a plinth with shops." This means that new fast food offerings can also be created on the ground floor of the apartment complex. "No! Then we have just managed to get the NS to move along, and then we get all the McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chickens and Dunkin' Donuts there."
These are just examples; It is not yet known to whom the real estate developer will rent. But his point is: as an alderman you have little say in the matter.
Toolbox
Other municipalities have the same problem in their own way: they can do virtually nothing about the growing supply of unhealthy food. On behalf of the four major cities and Ede, the University of Amsterdam conducted research in 2020 into the legal options to stop fast food. Conclusion: the municipality's 'toolbox' is inadequate. Focusing on the catering offer is only allowed if there is potential inconvenience to citizens. Remember: no permit to serve alcohol due to noise. No chip shop, due to odor nuisance or litter on the street.
Extra complicated: each municipality has its own zoning plan. Ede only makes a distinction between catering establishments that serve alcohol and those that do not. Amsterdam also makes a distinction between restaurants and places for picking up a quick bite, such as a snack bar or döner shop.
In 2018, the municipality of Amsterdam stopped a New York Pizza branch in the De Pijp district, because the permit for the building, according to the zoning plan, allowed catering, but not fast food. New York Pizza went to court: the chain argued that it was a restaurant because guests could also sit there. The case was fought before the Council of State, which agreed with the municipality.
The issue wasn't about how unhealthy eating New York Pizza is. However, in this case you could also see a shortcut to avoid unhealthy food. But do we think that municipalities should have to rely on shortcuts, asks Anniek de Ruijter, co-author of the UvA study and associate professor of health law. "Why can't the municipality simply say: the food supply in this neighborhood is now becoming too unhealthy, we are going to intervene?"
Moreover, the municipality cannot do much at the moment. The building that New York Pizza had in mind, on the corner of the Albert Cuyp market, now houses a Dunkin' Donuts (now called Dunkin'). Against the wishes of the city council, but in line with the zoning plan, which allows pastry shops, coffee shops and ice cream shops in that location.
It is these kinds of twists and restrictions that have led municipalities in The Hague to come knocking. They want the government to come up with legislation and regulations that will make it easier to stop new snack bars, hamburger restaurants and other fast food. State Secretary Maarten van Ooijen (Public Health, Christian Union) is now investigating what is legally possible. The municipalities cited the UvA research in their call. It argues that governments must ensure a healthy food environment on the basis of national, international and European law, but have few legal options to do so.
Unhealthy 'food density'
If municipalities want to ban unhealthy food solely from a public health perspective, they need additional 'legal instruments', they conclude. "Perhaps within spatial planning, or within the Commodities Act," says UvA researcher De Ruijter. "But in any case, you have to know at product level what you label as 'healthy' or 'unhealthy'. And it must also be determined when an area has approached too high an unhealthy 'food density', after which action can be taken."
According to De Ruijter, the route in environmental law is the most promising, but it would mean a break with the current interpretation of the legislation. At the moment, the regulation of spatial planning only concerns matters "that concern the relationship between citizens and the space around him or her". Things that bother you as a citizen, but which you cannot choose, such as walking through dirty air. According to De Ruijter, an excess of unhealthy food supply could also be described as something unavoidable, as something that must be limited to protect citizens.
Isn't that a very big step, as if people are weak-willed victims without any self-control? Restricting freedom of choice is controversial and is certainly sensitive on the right side of the political spectrum.
De Ruijter is aware of this criticism, but she says: "If almost only unhealthy food is offered in your area of ​​residence, then you can no longer speak of freedom of choice." Her fear is what food deserts become in the United States. mentioned: places where there is virtually no fresh and healthy food available in the area.
Then the question remains: what is unhealthy? And when does the supply become too large? De Ruijter, who is now conducting follow-up research into this issue together with health scientists from the Vrije Universiteit and the Amsterdam UMC, thinks that with freedom of choice, "you should at least be able to guarantee that citizens are offered as much unhealthy as healthy food in their living environment." "The limit is then 50 percent 'unhealthy'.
It is very important, she says, that it becomes clear what the food supply must comply with, so that providers have legal certainty. The question of which food is healthy should be linked as much as possible to existing pillars such as The Wheel of Five of the Nutrition Center, according to De Ruijter.
They are already doing something similar in the United Kingdom. From October, products with too much fat, sugar or salt will no longer be allowed to be placed in prominent places on British supermarket shelves. The Food Standards Agency, or the British NVWA, is responsible for the 'less healthy' assessment.
Stream of lawsuits
Wouldn't this type of food regulation in the Netherlands, if it were to come into effect, guarantee a flood of lawsuits? "One way or another," says De Ruijter. "That is why the support and a clear policy line from the national government can help the municipalities so much."
Anne-Marie Klijn, partner at law firm NewGround Law and specialist in environmental law, also foresees these lawsuits. In 2017, as a municipal lawyer in Amsterdam, Klijn was involved in the ban on tourist shops in the center, partly because of the 'habitability' of those areas. Entrepreneurs also litigated extensively about these regulations. Some of them have successfully challenged being a tourist shop. "But," says Klijn, "the regulations themselves have always passed the test of the judge." In other words: the municipality may distinguish between tourist shops and other shops and select accordingly.
It is clear that regulating a healthy environment is part of a trend. "For example, when designing public spaces, more and more attention is being paid to sports and exercise," says lawyer Pim Oremans, a colleague of Klijn. The new Environmental Act, which must include all spatial planning, discusses, among other things, 'achieving and maintaining a safe and healthy physical living environment'.
Klijn considers banning unhealthy food supplies to be "difficult to achieve, but not impossible", also based on existing local regulations. According to her, the crux is "how to make the concepts of 'healthy' and 'not healthy' bulletproof." . The assessment criteria must be "objective, verifiable and reasonable".
According to De Ruijter, the legislator must "at some point draw a line somewhere." But that is also the case with air quality, she says. "If it is clear that this line is being exceeded, enforcement can then be carried out. Then the government must inform citizens to protect."
That protection is and remains a sensitive point, councilor Meijer from Ede knows all too well. With a sigh: “Oh, in this country you are not allowed to patronize. How often I am told: you are not going to decide what I eat." He therefore emphasizes once again: "What matters to me is that the offering is diverse. We are really not going to exclude everything."
Amsterdam barred a branch of New York Pizza. There is now a Dunkin' Donuts in that building
Unhealthy eating Higher risk of some diseases
The fast food supply and the number of overweight people are both growing: in 1980 a third of the adult population was overweight, now more than half. In neighborhoods where many people with low education and low incomes live, there is more obesity. In Rotterdam, the fast food supply increased by 37 percent in fifteen years, but by 57 percent in poor neighborhoods.
Of Dutch children and young people, 16 percent are overweight, in cities this percentage is higher: even 23 percent among secondary school students in Amsterdam. In The Hague, a fifth of children under the age of twelve are overweight.
An unhealthy diet increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes and cancer. In Rotterdam, the difference in healthy years of life between poor and rich neighborhoods is up to fifteen years.
It is expected that 62 percent of adults will be overweight by 2040. Partly for this reason, the government set goals in 2018: the proportion of overweight people must return to the level of 1996, when 38 percent of adults and 9 percent of children were overweight.
About this triptych
More and more Dutch people are overweight. Meanwhile, the supply of fast, unhealthy food on the street is growing. In a triptych, NRC investigates how administrators struggle to curb fast food. Today part 3.
Part 1: On the road in a disadvantaged neighborhood in The Hague where fast food does not only come from the big chains.
Part 2: All major fast food chains are located in the immediate vicinity of a secondary school in Almere. And why shouldn't students be allowed to go there?
Part 3: The councilor in Ede wants healthy food to be for sale at the new station. What can he do?
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
Alderman Leon Meijer of Ede, the first alderman 'food', at the location where the new Ede-Wageningen station will be built.

Load Date: July 28, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")