Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Shortage partly due to hiring experts
The Gelderlander
October 10, 2017 Tuesday
Valley Edition


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 6
Length: 327 words
Byline: SUZANNE DE WINTER
Highlight: The official organization of the municipality of Renkum ends this year with a deficit of one and a half million euros. Too bad, says councilor Erik Heinrich, but unavoidable.
Body


The central government has given municipalities additional tasks and a budget to do that work, but less money than is actually needed. It also requires a major effort to reorganize the municipal organization in such a way that these additional tasks, the Social Support Act, Youth Act and Participation Act (together referred to as the social domain), can be carried out properly.

A large part of the financial deficit therefore consists of the costs of hired experts who helped Renkum with this. In addition, civil servants received a higher salary after collective labor agreements.

Heinrich thought it was a very intensive council period due to the major changes at the town hall. Looking at the budget for next year and later, 50,000 euros have been reserved for the co-financing of the Airborne Museum master plan, 19,000 euros for a leaky pond in Bato's neighborhood in Oosterbeek and the municipality also wants to invest 102,000 euros in the municipal internet page, on which citizens can arrange their affairs even better digitally.

1 million euros, spread over several years, will be reserved for the plan in which the municipality indicates how it wants to deal with the additional tasks assigned to it by the central government. After the extra work for the social domain, municipalities will be similarly busy in the coming years with the new Environmental Act, according to Heinrich. The central government wants to simplify the rules for spatial development and merge them into this new law. "The Environmental Act has been in the pipeline for some time," said the councilor. "It's a devilish thing. The central government wants to summarize 100 laws in one law that will cover everything. Not only whether you can physically build somewhere, but also the quality of living and safety, for example, are discussed."

According to Heinrich, the new law requires an enormous effort from municipalities.

View the original page: page 6

Load Date: October 9, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")