Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Terrace until only 7 p.m., why?
The Limburger
August 15, 2023 Tuesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: BACKGROUND; Page 5
Length: 576 words
Byline: Joos Philippens
Body


A new terrace where the chairs have to be cleared away at 7 p.m., while the party continues everywhere until after midnight. The coalition parties D66 and CDA are using the Café Forum/Enfin issue in Maastricht for critical questions in the municipal council.
Warmer evenings and the aftermath of the coronavirus that locked us down seem to make catering terraces increasingly important. Who wants to sit inside when you can dine or enjoy a drink outside?
It is understandable that John Paulus, owner of Café Forum in Sint Pieterstraat, has his covetous eye on the sidewalk across the street from his café. New Maastricht rules also make it possible to start a terrace there. Make good agreements with your colleague. Anyway, off you go.
Three years later, Paulus has made only limited progress. Although the mayor and aldermen finally decided at the beginning of June that a new terrace may be built, it is now still a question of the conditions in the permit. The municipal council is currently assuming a closing time of 7 p.m., but that could also be later if both café owners and local residents could reach a compromise. It remains surprising that something like this can literally be negotiated. However, the discussions came to nothing and so the municipality has to make the decision.
Politics
A terrace that is only open until 7 p.m.? That question also stimulates politicians. The coalition parties D66 and CDA are surprised that the new policy that makes 'otherside terraces' possible can lead to a six to seven hour earlier closing time. "And this is based on the participation of some residents," councilors Thomas Gardien (D66) and Gabrielle Heine (CDA) wrote to the city council.
The agency Target Advice, engaged by the municipality, says that no environmental test is necessary. After all, the new terrace is located on the public road and the talk of terrace goers blends in with the daily sounds. But there is also such a thing as a 'spatial test'. Well, then it is more difficult, since the terrace will be directly adjacent to residential complexes: the distance is zero meters, so strict conditions apply.
Target Advice calculates that the terrace is possible during the day, but that it becomes more difficult after 7 p.m., given the 'lively cafes'. Because terraces are part of a vibrant city and because of the existing terraces in the area, the municipality can be a little more flexible, but the new terrace should still close no later than 9 p.m. and at 11 p.m. on weekends. And preferably with soundproofing measures for the homes, according to Target.
This patio issue can be seen as a test for the Environmental Act, which has already been postponed several times, and which must finally come into effect on January 1. Residents have more say. Maastricht will be faced with an even greater choice: economic growth versus the interests of individual citizens.
Precedent effect
But it remains strange: you have to tolerate an existing terrace under your living room window until 1 a.m. or even 2 a.m.; With a new terrace you can apparently influence that time as a resident. And what about the precedent? On one side of the street open until after midnight, on the other side the chairs have been stacked up for hours.
Legal inequality? Negotiation policy? Or is it right to pay more attention to residents? Every reason for the municipal council to follow the entire issue with suspicion.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 14, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")