Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Back to working with nature'
The Gelderlander
April 2, 2022 Saturday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2, 3
Length: 945 words
Byline: JOOST ARIANS
Highlight: Special agricultural zones must be created in the Land van Cuijk. That plea from Environmental Association Land van Cuijk seems strange, but according to Geert Verstegen it is not. "Nature and farm life go hand in hand."
Body


Environmental club advocates green agricultural zones in the Land van Cuijk
Joost Ariaans

Cuijk

Nature and farm life must go together again. This is what Geert Verstegen of the Land van Cuijk Environmental Association says. The environmental club, often the thorn in the side of the agricultural world, advocates the creation of green agricultural zones. Now that the five municipalities in the region have merged into one municipality, Land van Cuijk, this is the time, according to Verstegen, to make such zones become a reality. Its usefulness? “We have fragmented and polluted nature. We have to fix that. A contiguous agricultural and natural landscape simply increases the diversity of plants and animals and is therefore good for the environment."

Farmers can play a major role in this, says Verstegen, who has history in his hand. “When there were no farmers yet, the Netherlands was one large plain, with a one-sided nature. Farmers provided fields and hedgerows. For diversity in nature and landscape. The farmers have created our landscape and the nature that goes with it."

This was disrupted by all kinds of developments. “Mechanization, the use of artificial fertilizer, a surplus of manure due to huge livestock farms. The whole farming life changed from the 1950s onwards."

Land consolidation followed, farms grew. “What you got were large agricultural companies with a bit of nature. Nature suffered a blow. Connections disappeared, quality declined."

That has to change, says Verstegen. Because, he says: "Biodiversity is not a luxury."

More types of animals and plants. A varied nature is also good for a farmer, says Verstegen. “If you don't do it, you'll be the loser in the long run. You have to deal with more pests, you have to use increasingly heavier means to cultivate the land: larger tractors, drainage systems, pesticides."

Verstegen argues for a change. Not only in the interests of animals and plants, also for the farmer. “The farmer's income is under severe pressure. Technical innovation is not enough, it will not work in the long term. The government now requires farmers to take certain measures in a stable, but a year later the same government says: that doesn't work enough. They are innovations in an outdated system."

The system must be different. “We have to go back to square one: working with nature. The subsidies will double, but only for farmers who move in the biodiverse direction. We don't want to go back to the time of Ot and Sien. You can use new techniques for weed and pest control. Robotics, drones. You can quickly see where things are going wrong and can intervene quickly. Without means that interfere with nature. And at much lower costs."

The system can change thanks to, here comes the magic word, green agricultural zones. The Land van Cuijk has two important areas for nature: the Maasheggen area and the Peelhorst. "But the connections between those two relatively green belts are virtually absent."

As far as Verstegen is concerned, these connections, where nature and agriculture reinforce each other, must be created. See the graphic: the yellow arrows indicate the targeted zones. "These two belts must be connected by farmland in connection with nature. Good quality connections for which space must be reserved."

As far as the environmental association is concerned, the municipality comes up with a vision and a spatial plan for the Land van Cuijk for the restoration of the agricultural-natural landscape. According to Verstegen, with such a plan you can already counter 'wrong developments' and develop 'stepping stones for the future'. Although he also realizes that changes will not happen overnight.
Which is already possible
While green agricultural zones are a long-term issue, nature can also be saved in the short term in places where connections are lacking, the environmental association states:
1 The Kuilen in Mill
Residents bought a piece of land in the area in order to scupper the plans for a recreational area and develop new nature. The foundation that was established now wants to do the same at the former cross country terrain. Nature must be given free rein there too.
2 Concrete plant Boxmeer
In the Maasheggen area, a dilapidated concrete plant looks like 'an ugly pimple'. That thing needs to get out of there completely, but that can only be done by buying out the owners. Where should the money come from? Of the municipality? A crowdfunding campaign? In any case: nature is priceless.

3 Grave Visioterrein

A green environment on the spot where the blind institute Visio once dominated. With protected species such as little owl, badger and water bat. You could build houses there, but as far as the environmental association is concerned, you should not want that. A natural pearl can be created here.
4 Bottleneck Oeffelt
To protect people from high water, the road near the bridge in Oeffelt is raised on stilts and the area is lowered. The result is that the water level is much lower. Nature development seemed to be neglected in this project, but a change is taking place. Vanished nature reserve will return or come back close to it.

Meeting in Sint Hubert

Environmental association Land van Cuijk will hold a meeting on April 20 in the De Jachthoorn community center in Sint Hubert. Geert Verstegen of the environmental association is one of the speakers. Christ Tielemans (former HAS teacher) talks about livestock farming and the new nature. Ralph Köhne (HSA teacher) gives his lecture about the journey to the future, focused on arable farming. The meeting starts at 7:30 PM, the hall opens half an hour earlier. Register at ambientwet@mlvc.nl
Biodiversity is not a luxury. Varied nature is also good for a farmer

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Load Date: April 1, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")