Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Not enough attention for young, old and the environment'
The Gelderlander
January 26, 2022 Wednesday
Rijk van Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2, 3
Length: 699 words
Highlight: The planned houses between the Maas and the Rijksweg in Molenhoek are not environmentally friendly enough. There are also too few homes for the elderly and young people.
Body


Molenhoek construction plan for 250 houses encounters criticism from Energiecafé Mook en Middelaar and WoonplatforMM
Margriet Verschoor

Molenhoek

Participation also leaves much to be desired. This is what WoonplatforMM and Energiecafé Mook en Middelaar say. Their criticism concerns the plans for houses south of the village of Molenhoek, between the Maas, Rijksweg and the railway. The municipality wants to build approximately 250 houses there together with several project developers.

The preliminary plan contains three scenarios for the district, including differences in design, the ratio of apartments (between 25 and 50 percent) and greenery. Half of the houses should become owner-occupied homes above 3.5 tons, a third of the homes would be accessible for purchase or rental (up to 3.5 tons or 950 euros rent) and twenty percent of the houses would fall into the social category. rent.

The planners say they have paid attention to sustainability and climate. For example, the roofs on the houses are suitable for solar panels, renewable materials are used in construction, the houses are resistant to heat and flooding and suitable for working from home through fiber optic. There will also be electric charging stations and shared transport in the district.

But according to the Energy Café, which helps residents save and sustainably generate energy, these sustainability plans do not go far enough. Not at all if Mook and Middelaar want to be energy neutral by 2030 - i.e. generate as much energy as they consume - .
More energy
In order to achieve that goal (somewhat), new houses and neighborhoods must, according to the Energy Café, not only be built 'energy neutral' (the present plan would not even go far enough for this), but 'energy positive'. This means that more energy is generated than is used.

According to the Energy Café, the extra energy can be used to charge cars and be stored and shared between homes and other users. The members of the Energy Café therefore advocate, among other things, a significantly higher insulation value, a favorable location of the houses in relation to the sun and a collective heat pump system that uses, for example, ground heat or Maas water.
Court houses
WoonplatforMM mainly represents the interests of the elderly and young people who would like to live in the neighborhood. According to the platform, what is missing from the plans are courtyard houses: sustainable homes - not flats or apartments - for the elderly and young people with a garden and a communal facility inside. A courtyard promotes mutual involvement and looking out for each other, according to WoonplatforMM

The housing platform also advocates a partnership with housing association Destion to ensure that social rent is as low as possible. There is also more certainty that this category of houses will not be sold in a few years and the housing association also has a duty to reserve houses for 'urgent seekers', such as people who are in danger of ending up on the street after a divorce.

At the beginning of December, councilor Geertjan Wienhoven already announced that he thought it was important to get the plans through the city council as quickly as possible. A new Environmental Act - a law for building, living environment and spatial planning - is in the making.
Delay
To avoid delays, Wienhoven wants to get ahead of the launch of that law on July 1 this year. This is in view of the great housing shortage. The Energy Café sees the advantages of this new law. "This law actually sets higher requirements in the field of sustainability," says Barny Versteegen of the Energiecafé Mook en Middelaar.

"We are seriously concerned, especially about the lack of participation and the haste that the councilor wants to make," says Versteegen.

In recent weeks, residents and stakeholders were able to respond to the preliminary idea. The plans for Molenhoek-Zuid will probably be discussed during the council meeting on March 10. Today the plan will be presented to the Land Committee.
According to Energiecafé, the plans for solar panels and charging stations, among other things, do not go far enough
We are seriously concerned, especially about the lack of participation

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Graphic

 
The area where the new neighborhood is to be built, in the foreground the allotment complex that has to be moved. A piece of the railway bridge can still be seen at the rear right. photo theo Peeters

Load Date: January 25, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")