Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Tiel is becoming more economical on historic buildings
The Gelderlander
January 11, 2019 Friday
Rivierenland Edition


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 1
Length: 473 words
Byline: JONI VAN ESSEN MARGREET TERPSTRA
Highlight: There will be more money for municipal monuments in Tiel. The mayor and aldermen want to temporarily contribute to the maintenance. They are also starting a trial to make shop facades in the center more 'historical' and they want to designate places in the city center as a protected cityscape.
Body


The municipality temporarily contributes to the maintenance of monuments
This is stated in the new Heritage Plan. Before the plans can go ahead, they must first go through the Spatial Planning Committee and the municipal council. They will discuss these on February 5 and 20 respectively.

It was a blow to the owners of municipal monuments in 2014: the then municipal council decided to stop subsidizing maintenance. As a result, owners missed out on money twice, because the province of Gelderland subsequently ended its 'couple subsidy'. After all, this is only provided if another organization - in this case the municipality of Tiel - also pays.

It aroused anger among owners: the municipality wanted to protect the heritage by designating monuments, but did not want to contribute to it. Tiel is also afraid that the decision at the time will not work out well for the monuments. To save money, homeowners could opt for less maintenance, cheaper labor or poorer materials.

But the arrangement will change, according to the Heritage Plan 2019-2023. Tiel still wants to come up with money with a so-called 'attraction scheme'. Not as a subsidy, she says emphatically, but as temporary support if, for example, an owner wants to renovate his building. Tiel uses money from the reserve for this: 20,000 euros is available annually until 2023. "We are also trying to get the coupling subsidy back from the province," said a spokesperson. If the reserve is empty, the municipality must reconsider whether it wants to financially support municipal monuments.

The new plans are partly inspired by the new Heritage Act, which sets rules for monumental buildings. The law also obliges owners to maintain their monument. This does not mean that everyone who just applies a lick of paint to the window frames can immediately expect visitors, says Tiel. The municipality engages in discussions especially with buildings that are in poor condition. The new Environmental Act, which will come into effect in 2021, obliges municipalities to pay attention to cultural heritage.

In the past, Tiel was often criticized for the way it dealt with its historic buildings. Dozens of old buildings disappeared over time. The municipality now wants to put an end to this. Not only monuments need to be better protected against the demolition hammer, but also other special buildings. Before a historic building can be demolished, the owner must first conduct building history research at his own expense.

In addition, as the municipality previously announced, protected cityscapes will be designated in the center. This should also ensure that Tiel retains a historic appearance.
Tiel also wants to better protect other special buildings against the demolition hammer

View the original page: page 1

Graphic

 
Historical buildings in Tiel, such as this one in Ambtmanstraat, are receiving more attention.

Load Date: January 10, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")