Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Waiting ten years for housing, no way!'
The Gelderlander
February 15, 2024 Thursday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2, 3
Length: 932 words
Byline: DENNIS GREIJN
Highlight: If you are 78, you can quietly play cards or play a game of billiards in the village hall. But you can also make a cry for help for old and young.
Body


78-year-old is committed to the village he had to leave
Dennis Greijn

Saint Agatha

Chairman Willem Cranen and his co-directors of the village association Agatha Leeft did not know what they heard that Friday in November. They said they were shocked and disappointed. Two aldermen from Land van Cuijk, to which Sint Agatha belongs with about five hundred inhabitants, came to the multifunctional village hall De Agaat to talk about 'living'. Long story short: due to zoning plan procedures, it would take 'at least ten years' before construction can begin on the edges of the village. “No way!”, Cranen thought, in times of housing shortage.

In the built-up area of ​​Sint Agatha, there are 'only' a few private plots available to build homes (read: renovate/divide old farms). But that, Cranen also knows, won't cut it. "Sint Agatha must still have a right to exist in ten years' time," he says combatively. "Complicated and time-consuming zoning plan procedures do not help with this."

Sint Agatha, known for its Kruisheren monastery on the Maas from 1371, has not had a grocer for a long time. The last pub, café De S-Bocht, closed its doors for good in 2021. Good news: this will almost certainly result in housing construction. And there is another small (Jenaplan) school, good for about fifty students. "You shouldn't think about the school disappearing. Then club life will also come under further pressure," says the 78-year-old who is also chairman of the brass band and the guild. "The basis for a flourishing village is sufficient housing, for seniors and for young people, for starters. ."

He himself left Sint Aegten five years ago with pain in his heart. He and his wife moved to a smaller home, in an apartment in neighboring Cuijk. "Senior homes, a courtyard with a communal courtyard, it is not there here." It could have been done. But then - again those - government laws and regulations would not have allowed the construction of a handful of senior and starter homes close to the sports park Because: too close to the sports park.

Cranen, about his own departure: "We had no choice. The house with garden where we enjoyed living for almost forty years became too big. You can't maintain it all anymore. My wife had become devoted to the peace and greenery of the village. The cows in the meadow, the birds that you hear chirping everywhere, the beautiful view of the Maas."

As chairman of the village association, Cranen continues to work tirelessly for his small core. “I like to do that. I also feel obliged. You know a lot of people in the village. We have lived here for so long."

With him, more seniors were forced to move to the 'big' Cuijk. If there is no room for housing soon, more will follow soon. In 2040, almost one in five residents of Land van Cuijk will be over 75. "But young people who wanted to continue living here also had to move to nearby villages such as Oeffelt, Beugen and Haps."

During a tour through the village, Cranen shows locations in the center where discussions are ongoing with landowners about housing construction. "We don't sit still ourselves." The chairman also points to vacant land just outside the built-up area. But yes, the village also needs the green light for this from the province, which concerns building outside the built-up area. Cranens municipality wants to build 5,700 homes in Land van Cuijk by 2040.

Small-scale construction on the edges of cities and villages can, according to initial research commissioned by the central government last autumn, make a significant contribution to meeting the national housing construction target. For this 'side street', Minister Hugo de Jonge of Housing will look with the provinces to see where construction can be done on the edges without doing too much violence to nature.

There is now some hope for Saint Agatha again. At the end of this month, a delegation from the municipality of Land van Cuijk will go to the provincial government building in Den Bosch. There she will, among other things, advocate housing construction in Sint Agatha. Councilor Bouke de Bruin, who is responsible for housing in Land van Cuijk, recently said: "Housing is one of the most important tasks we have as a municipality." A municipal spokesperson: "We think it is very important that in all centers of Land van Cuijk houses are being built. There are few options for this within Sint Agatha. So we would like to look at options for housing outside the village."

Cranen: "We now really hope for a creative, combative municipal council that will exert its influence on the stifling regulations. Now we are in a harness of zoning laws."

'Where there is a will there is a way'

Problems that Sint Agatha faces are recognizable for many small villages in Brabant. This is what Evert van Schoonhoven, chairman of the Association of Small Cores North Brabant, says. “But where there's a will, there's a way. Also for housing on the edges of a village."

Van Schoonhoven advises residents of small centers and municipalities themselves to show more courage. “Put your shoulders to the wheel together. Nowadays more is possible. The province also invites municipalities to come up with housing construction locations. The new Environmental Act, which came into effect at the beginning of this year, also offers more options. Residents are also encouraged to come up with initiatives themselves, to which municipalities must then respond. A bit the opposite way."
You shouldn't think about the school disappearing

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Load Date: February 14, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")