Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Struggling with the new Environmental Act that requires dialogue
The Limburger
February 11, 2022 Friday
Venlo|Venray


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 431 words
Byline: Angela Janssens
Body


Suppose someone wants to build a nuclear power plant in Horst. And that it was never really agreed that the municipal council should first think about it. How can you be sure that the council will not decide on its own?
Do not worry. "If someone wants to build a nuclear power plant in Horst, everyone understands that we first have to discuss it with the municipal council." Councilor Eric Beurskens said this this week during a long debate about the Environmental Act and the associated 'binding right of advice' that municipal councils receive. when granting an environmental permit once the law applies.
With the Environmental Act, which will be introduced gradually until 2029, the government not only wants to ensure that citizens can have a say in advance about plans that may affect them. The new law should also ensure that municipal authorities can grant or reject a permit much more easily because procedures become simpler and faster due to fewer rules.
Sailing
In order to really keep up the momentum, the Horster council has shortened the existing list of subjects for which the municipal council must now issue a 'declaration of no objection'. Under the new Environmental Act, this is called 'binding advice right'. These are plans that the city council and council cannot foresee in advance, which means that there is (yet) no existing policy for them.
The council proposes three categories that will first have to go to the council for a binding right of advice. These are primarily initiatives for large, new companies or major expansions of existing companies in the countryside. Plus plans for wind farms and solar meadows larger than 15 hectares. The third is housing for migrant workers, insofar as this is not regulated anywhere.
Influence
A number of council factions believe that the list has become far too short and that the council's influence is therefore drastically limited. But a proposal to expand the list to include that imaginary nuclear or hydroelectric power station, anything in the field of housing migrant workers, large housing projects, high masts, new logistics companies or livestock farms, did not make it.
However, the Horster council did not take the short list at face value. It has been agreed that in cases with a major social impact, the council will still obtain a binding right of advice from the municipal council. The question remains what 'major social impact' is. A gray area, everyone agrees. However, most council factions rely on the instincts of their (future) councillors.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 10, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")