Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Future
The Limburger
May 18, 2019 Saturday
Roermond


Copyright 2019 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 298 words
Body


Plan for old Philips site Roermond rejected again (11/5) Roermond is a small city with an increasingly smaller youthful population. Apart from carnival and Solar, she doesn't have much to offer this group. The cultural variety we knew in previous centuries has slowly withered away. Roermond has become a bedroom community like Eindhoven, Maastricht or Sittard. Sleeping is important, but living well in your own city is even more important.
With C-Mill from Simonis we had an opportunity to make the city more lively and richer, with room for initiatives, small starters, cultural pop-ups. A small future for our youth.
The article states that Roermond has been at odds with Yageo since 2005. Yes, the people living directly around the site. The municipality has not yet been very concerned about it. Oh wait, there is a coalition-wide agreement from 2014 that states that the site needs to be renovated. Oh, our councilor has shouted in the national press that Yageo will be given 'first priority'. The councilors mentioned in the article cleverly used private initiators to pretend that the Yageo site needed to be tackled.
In 2019, the municipality has legal options (Crisis and Recovery Act; the Environmental Act) to tackle the site and the owner, but our council does not know that. They don't even know what role the Yageo site could play in our dormitory city.
The Yageo site is being reclaimed by project developers to build a sleep-inducing neighborhood after demolition, which will bring nothing but peace and quiet to the city.
Residents of Vrijveld, Maasniel and Bredeweg have been enjoying peace and quiet on the Yageo site for years. We now want action again, preferably sustainable, friendly and social.
Thei Moors, Roermond
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 18, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")