Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Future vision of logistics challenge
The Limburger
February 19, 2020 Wednesday
HeerlenKL


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: CHEMELOT; Page 10
Length: 392 words
Byline: Paul Dolhain And Peter Bruijns
Body


About two hundred local residents were present at Motel Van der Valk at the information evening in which the plan was explained. Since the plan had only been shared in advance with a sounding board group, those present received quite a lot of criticism in a short time. Most changes will be seen in the infrastructure. To accommodate the doubling of car traffic, the road network must be adapted. This is done by changing the internal traffic flows. But it is certain that the Urmonderbaan and Oude Postbaan junction will get stuck during rush hour. A grade-separated intersection must therefore be constructed at this point.
Freight traffic
But not only passenger transport will expand. Chemelot also expects a significant increase in freight traffic. While there are currently 2,000 freight journeys per day, this will increase to an estimated 5,000. To this end, Chemelot would prefer to see a non-public road to the port in Stein over the old railway line to remove waste and thus improve traffic safety in the area. secure. In addition to the traffic aspects, measures must be taken to get employees to the chemical site in a different way. For example, by encouraging them to use the (electric) bicycle more often and to adjust working hours to peak hours. Chemelot will also change its parking policy. This largely takes place on our own premises, but also in the Kampstraat in Geleen.
Water
More activity will also take place on the water. For the port of Stein, this means that more noise is produced during the night and there is no room for this in the current Environmental Act. Chemelot will have to receive support from the Stein municipal council for this. Expansion of the port is not yet an option, as can be read in the plan. However, adjustments will be made to the existing area. The number of pipelines running from the chemical site to the port will also be expanded. These are often used for the disposal of hazardous substances. To guarantee water quality and reuse, water purification company Sitech IAZI will have to expand significantly.
A significant number of changes about which attendees could ask questions afterwards. That also happened, but mainly by people who had seen the plan in advance.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 18, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")