Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=TopParken is taking time with a large holiday park along the A73 near Cuijk
The Gelderlander
January 26, 2024 Friday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2
Length: 562 words
Byline: DENNIS GREIJN
Body


TopParken is taking a step back with the much-discussed Dommelsvoort holiday park, along the A73 between Beers and Linden. Dutch Resorts will re-examine the plans for Waterpark Dommelsvoort, a recreational park with 550 holiday homes, in the near future.

This is evident from a short statement from the developer, part of holiday park company TopParken. There is talk of 'an intermediate step'.

The introduction of the national environmental law at the beginning of this year ensures that operator TopParken from Lunteren opts for this intermediate step. The new law gives citizens more influence on the development of plans in their area. The critical reactions after discussions last year and market conditions play a role in this.

In the statement, Topparken states that adjustments to the original plan cannot be ruled out. The developer says it will 'keep the interests and perspectives of other parties in mind'. The statement also states that 'a harmonious integration' of the plan into the landscape is also being considered. The intended plan area measures more than 70 hectares.

TopParken is not releasing anything about which scenarios are being considered. “We are reconsidering the plans. We just need more time," says Dommelsvoort project leader Henk van Eldijk. "About four months." Whether this means that the park will become smaller in size - it was previously reduced from a maximum of 700 houses to 550 holiday homes - is unclear.

Last September, further decision-making on the preliminary Dommelsvoort master plan from May 2023 was postponed until the beginning of this year.

In view of previous criticism from the village councils of Beers, Linden and Gassel, from the Cuijk district council Heeswijkse Kampen and from interest group Friends of the Groene Kraaij on, among other things, the size of the project, the municipality of Land van Cuijk considers this intermediate step 'wise'.

Councilor Maarten Jilisen, responsible for plans to further develop the Kraaijenbergse Plassen for tourism, also sees it as 'an intermediate step'.
In phases
It should be clear before the summer holidays how TopParken plans to proceed. Last year, the municipality and developer said that the project would be built in phases over several years from next summer.

Years ago, the then municipality of Cuijk incurred 12 million euros in preparation costs for the park. Including by building a drawbridge at Linden and by moving a badger family to Gassel for 1.6 million euros. There are now new, legally protected badgers in the area.

The redevelopment of the Dommelsvoort area near Cuijk has been discussed for at least a quarter of a century. There has been a zoning plan adopted by the municipal council since 2012. Initially, project developer Van Boekel from the village of Zeeland was going to build a holiday park here. But arguments with the municipality over the transfer of land resulted in a lawsuit.

Since 2020, TopParken has been the developer of the intended luxury recreational park, which should attract hundreds of thousands of visitors to the region every year.
We will keep the interests and perspectives of other parties in mind
We are reconsidering the plans. We just need more time
Since 2020, TopParken has been the developer of the intended park, which should attract many visitors to the region

View the original page: page 2

Load Date: January 25, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")