Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Sky-high levies are hindering events on the Maas
The Gelderlander
April 16, 2024 Tuesday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 4, 5
Length: 536 words
Byline: PETER VAN ERP
Body


The floodplains along the Meuse are becoming unaffordable for local activities. Lith Presenteert is cancelled, Thanks to Dijken has doubts about the future and Pleinpop is left with a financial hangover. What is going on?

The fun is completely gone for organizations of events on the banks of the Maas. The necessary paperwork has been overwhelming the volunteers in recent years and now the government is also making a significant contribution to the budget. The fees for a permit will go from approximately 100 euros to more than 1100 euros in one fell swoop.

And then 2 euros per visitor must also be paid. That is the rent charged by the Central Government Real Estate Agency. At the Pleinpop festival, which took place in Alphen aan de Maas on the weekend of April 6 and 7, this year the latter agency alone presented them with a bill of 15,000 euros. "We can be happy if we break even," grumbles Willie Appeldoorn, chairman of the organization.

Pleinpop once started as a fun village party, but this extra cost could well be the final blow to the event. One of the events that is already being canceled is Lith Presenteert, a small-scale fair that would take place on June 2 at the museum boat Shocker. "Because this falls within the breeding season, we should hire an ecologist for research," says Tonnie Wiegmans of the Promotion Village on the River foundation.

While the board was considering an alternative date outside the breeding season, the members received news of the extreme increase in fees and rent of 2 euros per visitor. ,,Then it stops. We aimed for a small-scale fair with free entrance. This makes it unaffordable. We'll come up with something else."

Ans Jager is also very disappointed. The director of theater group Thanks to the Dijken recently received dire news from Rijkswaterstaat about the new rates. In September, the performance Long Live the War is planned for two weekends in a row at the Princess Maxima locks in Lith. A performance on the occasion of eighty years of liberation. The news that the organization will soon have to pay thousands of euros to be allowed to perform in the familiar location on the Maas is a huge downer.

The new costs would be related to the new Environmental Act that came into effect on January 1, Appeldoorn understands.

A spokeswoman for Rijkswaterstaat confirms this statement in broad terms. "The new Environmental Act states that the costs for issuing permits can be passed on to the applicant. In addition, we must publish decisions about this in the Government Gazette and make the documents physically available for inspection. We also charge those costs, 520 euros, to the applicant." Rijkswaterstaat refers to the Rijksvastgoedbedrijf, the service that manages all buildings and grounds of the government. According to a spokesperson for this service, a market rate is applied when renting out land.
If this does not change, many organizations will give up

View the original page: page 4, page 5

Graphic

 
An aerial photo of Pleinpop in 2022, at the new location on the Maas. The organization is issuing a cry for help.

Load Date: April 15, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")