Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Vibrations in GelreDome must be reduced to a lower level
The Gelderlander
May 1, 2024 Wednesday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 297 words
Byline: STEPHEN FRIEDRICHS
Body


Can the Snollebollekes and The Streamers still perform in the GelreDome in the future? If it were up to the Arnhem city council, yes. But then something must be done about the vibrations that local residents experience.

Stephen Friedrichs

Arnhem

During The Streamers' concert last fall, residents of a nearby apartment complex suffered so much from vibrations that the building was evacuated for a short time. It was remarkable that residents of a flat nearby were hardly inconvenienced by the concerts.

The vibrations that local residents experience are related to 'audience dancing and jumping exuberantly', the Arnhem city council said in a letter to the city council. Unlike noise standards - it is nationally determined that the sound at a concert may never be louder than 103 decibels - the current permit for the GelreDome does not include any regulations for vibrations.

According to the city council, this is necessary to maintain GelreDome as a major event location, without local residents suffering as a result. In addition, the new Environmental Act, which came into effect on January 1 of this year, obliges municipalities to provide clarity about this.

Arnhem will also do that, as can be read in the council letter. The municipality is in discussions about this with Exploitatiemaatschappij GelreDome, the organization responsible for programming in the stadium in Arnhem-Zuid.

'The approach is to find a solution together that makes it possible to continue existing events. At the same time, we are of course aware of the nuisance that vibrations can cause to our residents and we believe it is important that this nuisance is at an acceptable level.'

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: May 1, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")