Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Tubberg's municipal council will still have a greater say in asylum issues; but whether it would have helped at the asylum seekers' center is highly questionable
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 16, 2023 Thursday 08:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 375 words
Byline: Hans Brok
Body


Would it have helped? Nobody knows. But the fact is that the Tubbergen municipal council, more than a year after the permit for an asylum seekers' center, is still given more powers. In cases involving the reception of refugees and/or asylum seekers, the municipal council can issue a mandatory advice to the municipal council.
Why was that option not yet available in 2022?, councilor Stijn Hesselink wondered out loud on Tuesday evening. The issue was then discussed in a council committee. Councilor Ursula Bekhuis did not provide an answer. "It is what it is."
The possibility of giving the municipal council the right to mandatory advice has a legal background. From January 1 next year, a number of laws will be merged into a new law: The Environmental Act.
The municipal council can identify sensitive/important topics, for which compelling advice from the council is always required. More than a year ago, seven topics were designated for this purpose. Despite the fact that there was already a lot of commotion around the (then not yet final) asylum seekers' center, the refugees did not appear on the list. Probably because no one thought of it.
More in the milk
Now that will happen. This gives the municipal council a little more of a say. A day after the meeting, councilor Stijn Hesselink wonders whether that would have made a difference. “The minister threatened with coercion, so the question is whether advice from the council could have changed anything.”
Nevertheless, the municipal council gains a little bit of clout. Not right away, because the proposal must first be discussed in the council. However, that seems like a formality, because all parties are in favor.
Windmills
Refugees and/or asylum seekers are the eighth reason for a binding right to advice. The other seven mainly deal with spatial planning plans. The municipal council issues a binding advice when it comes to: An additional home in the rural area, buildings more than 30 meters outside the building surface, expansion of companies in the rural area (non-agricultural), establishment of intensive livestock farming, installation of a solar field/high wind turbine /biomass installation, an antenna of more than 40 meters high and large-scale infrastructure works.

Load Date: November 16, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")