Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=You have been warned, the vicious terns are on their way to Terneuzen again
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 20, 2024 Wednesday 09:32 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 637 words
Byline: Raymond de Frel
Body


You've been warned, they're coming again! The terns are on their way from West Africa to Terneuzen to make life difficult for residents and entrepreneurs for a few months again. Oh no, don't be so negative: the sharp birds are in love with the city, because it is nice to breed there.
The first scarecrows are already flying above the roofs of companies and homes in the city center. In the coming weeks, many nets, flags, ribbons and other measures will follow to make it as unattractive as possible for the protected seagulls. Common terns like to breed on flat roofs with pebbles, preferably as close as possible to the nutrient-rich Western Scheldt. Anyone who comes too close to the (hatched) eggs in the eyes of a tern can count on a vicious attack until mid-August. After that time they go back to Africa.
“Is it really that bad, a bird like that?”
The aggressive behavior of the breeding terns regularly meant that employees of offices in the center of Terneuzen went to and from work in the middle of summer under a protective umbrella. It is therefore important to take measures again now, explains district coordinator Samantha Strooband of the municipality of Terneuzen. And that has to be done now, because in a few weeks the first terns will return to their beloved port city. Strooband: "It is quite a job to make everyone aware that measures are necessary. Local entrepreneurs often understand it, because they experience the consequences. But with many national concerns I always have to explain it again. I keep getting the question: is it really that bad, a bird like that?''
Yes, it really is that bad. Or no, actually not. It just depends on how you understand and explain it. The common tern is simply the common tern. Terneuzen has been a fan of this for years, so it will continue to come back. In other words: residents, visitors and entrepreneurs have to live with the screaming animals for four months a year.
'Matter of perseverance'
The province, municipality and Rijkswaterstaat joined forces two years ago to tackle the nuisance. They do this not only by encouraging measures to keep flat roofs free of birds. For example, they try to please the terns in specially designed breeding areas. Since last year, a real 'breeding hotel' has been floating near the lock complex. “The bed has been changed again, so if it were up to us they would come and breed there en masse. And near Dow we are trying to create a new tern hotspot with a jetty platform. It's really a matter of persevering. A common tern will certainly return to the place where it hatched for four to five years,” says Strooband.
In other words: if a common tern gets the chance to get a nice spot there again, it won't resist. Last year, all measures in the city had a positive effect; the nuisance was only limited to a few places in the city center. Strooband is now examining whether it can implement a ban on pebble roofs in the city center with the help of the new environmental law. She insists that government, companies and residents jointly bear the responsibility (and therefore also the costs) to keep it pleasant for both people and terns.
Nets on loan
The municipality lends out repellent nets at hotspots, and free ribbons can be collected for smaller roofs. "We also try to make people aware of the presence of the common terns in a positive way. For example, a tern summer beer will be launched on the market, with an explanation about the birds on the label. Yes, we are busy, the season has started again. That's why I also adjusted my ringtone. Every time I get a call, a tern screeches, haha!”
Also view our video reports:

Load Date: March 20, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")