Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='UFO' in the neighborhood leads to conflict
The Limburger
March 14, 2018 Wednesday
Roermond


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 1
Length: 521 words
Byline: BY GERTIE DRIESSEN
Body


ROERMOND
The municipality of Roermond attaches great importance to citizen participation. Find them yourself. Citizens view this somewhat differently.
This became apparent on Monday during a debate evening on this theme by the Space Foundation.
Citizen participation. Everyone is talking about it these days. But what exactly is citizen participation?
And how do you put it into practice as a government? Although Roermond says it puts citizen participation in capital letters, citizens still have different ideas about it, as became apparent this evening in a packed room in Hertenheym, where the Ruimte foundation is organizing a debate on that subject. Goal: to boost citizen participation in Roermond, as chairman Fons Zijlstra puts it.
Because things don't always go well. Okay, the Roermond resident may regularly discuss (construction) plans, but he really has no say in the matter. When push comes to shove, it is the initiator/project developer who comes out on top.
The municipality has usually already concluded a so-called agreement in principle. And there is still some work to be done on plans at the margins. If the environment is asked for its opinion at all. The public has plenty of examples of what not to do. The construction of hotel 't Valies on Loesbleik. Phase 2 of Roerdelta, the playing field in 't Vrijveld, the development of the Yageo site, the plan for care homes on the site of Café Braam.
Mostly initiatives that "land like a UFO in a neighborhood", explains leader and spatial planning expert Trees van der Schoot to the audience. Projects that make a neighborhood feel taken by surprise and dig its heels in. Often followed by a (judicial) battle, which does not improve citizens' confidence in the government.
Van der Schoot explains how things can be done differently and will soon have to be (legally), based on the Environmental Act, which will come into effect in 2021 and will cause a seismic shift in the field of spatial planning.
Her advice to the directors present: "First consult with a neighborhood. What quality requirements do people place on their environment? Then see whether an initiative fits in and only then make a decision in principle.
This is how you get out of fighting mode.
Many municipalities already work this way." From 2021, it will be legally required. Then there must be a quality program for every neighborhood against which plans are tested. And initiators must seek support from the neighborhood. This requires a true cultural change, Van der Schoot acknowledges. For project developers.
For citizens, who must learn to take responsibility for their living environment.
And especially for administrators, councilors and civil servants, who have to learn to let go.
Skeptical questions come from the audience - especially from politicians - but there is also a lot of support. The message is clear: when it comes to real citizen participation, Roermond still has a long way to go.
 Project developers will soon be obliged to seek support for their plans from residents. Trees van der Schoot, expert in the field of spatial planning.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 14, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")