Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Vaals must learn lessons from the vineyard trial
The Limburger
November 21, 2020 Saturday
Maastricht


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: BACKGROUND; environmental code; Page 4
Length: 470 words
Byline: Merel Visscher
Body


Now that Stan Beurskens of Wijngaard Sint Martinus has received 'green light' from the town hall in Vaals to develop his plan for expanding his wine cellars, he is actually just starting the whole procedure. If all goes well, a detailed construction plan could be available for inspection in about nine months. Views can be submitted on this. If the municipal council still agrees, people can still go to the Council of State. A not unlikely scenario, Beurskens realizes.
Lawsuits
He still has a way to go and could have saved himself a lot of time by not participating in the municipality's pilot for the Environment Act, which municipalities must implement themselves in 2022. The municipalities also want to see whether expensive and time-consuming lawsuits can be avoided by discussing a construction plan with local residents in advance in an 'environmental dialogue'. Beurskens was asked to draw up a business plan for the vineyard for the next thirty years. He not only had to present this to the residents in the area, but also make it a topic of discussion.
So last summer the winegrower stood alone in front of a room full of fellow villagers. He received no guidance or instructions from the municipality. "I had the feeling that I was being sent onto the field and didn't know whether I should play football, hockey or volleyball. I didn't know which way to go. Fortunately the atmosphere was great."
Beurskens then formed a sounding board group of people, including some fierce opponents, who could think about possible improvements. An example is the position of the building where the tractors are located: by moving this slightly, the sound when starting the vehicles does not go towards the buildings.
Delay
All in all, this sounding board period has resulted in a delay of one year for Beurskens. Opponents have not changed their opinion that year and maintain their opinion that the company does not fit in that area. The question is whether lawsuits can be prevented.
An eye-opener, says responsible councilor John Coenen. "A downside appears to be that you create an enormous opportunity for organized groups to immediately shut down plans." The procedure may also create the idea for some that consensus can be reached, he suspects. "A compromise is usually best feasible."
Coenen realizes that the experiment in Rott could have been better. A lesson for the future. "We should have set clear frameworks for the participants: what do we want to achieve, what are the guidelines. We underestimated this."
Beurskens accepts his loss of time and continues with the sounding board group. The fierce opponents also receive an invitation from him again. "I hope we can reach a reasonable agreement."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 20, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")