Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Valkenburg puzzles with its heritage
The Limburger
February 18, 2021 Thursday
HeerlenKL


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 10
Length: 654 words
Byline: René Willems
Body


Valkenburg has no fewer than 173 national monuments. But not one municipal monument. If it is up to councilor Rémy Meijers, it will remain that way. “It sounds very logical to designate historic buildings as protected monuments. But in doing so you are in fact also putting a straitjacket on the owner; Then almost nothing is possible with a building like that."
The choice is ultimately up to the municipal council. But Meijers' proposal would be to record the special nature of valuable buildings without monument status in the Environmental Act that is coming soon. This means that these structures are somewhat protected, he explains, although they are not immediately cast in concrete. "That's how you keep it workable."
The fact that many historic buildings can be found in Valkenburg is not surprising in a medieval fortified city with such a controversial past. But the fact that there are so many special places and corners was also a surprise for Meijers. "When you see that enormous Excel file, you really realize what we have here."
Grave monuments
This immediately raises the question of how Valkenburg should deal with this cultural-historical legacy. Store well, you might say. But is that realistic? "We alone have two hundred grave monuments that are special and at least two hundred and twenty historical crosses," Meijers notes. "It is almost impossible to preserve them all for eternity."
In order to be able to tailor a well-considered policy to this, we first listed what Valkenburg has to offer. For convenience, this harvest has been divided into four categories: buildings, other structures, historic grave monuments and landscape elements that say something about the way people have interacted with their environment over the centuries.
The latter category may require some explanation, Meijers realizes. "You will find quite a few wicker hedges in the Gerendal. You probably pass it by without thinking. But think of how diligently people have bent those twigs in the right direction again and again, so that they have finally grown together into a sturdy shield."
Cross away
This also applies to the vegetation around road crossings, the councilor explains. "You often see three trees behind such a road cross. That's no coincidence; those trees symbolize the Holy Trinity of God the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. Those trees are therefore clearly part of that spot, you should treat them just as carefully as you do with the road cross itself."
B and W will present the inventory of the cultural heritage - packaged in a book with the old Tranchot map from 1804 as a cover - to the municipal council this week. He must then consider how the municipality wants to deal with this: what should remain as it is, what can possibly be adapted to the current times? “And that is a political question,” Meijers emphasizes.
One old farm is not the same as another
For many buildings, the historical significance is clear at first glance, says councilor Rémy Meijers. Most castles and churches are even on the government's official monument list, which immediately confirms their value.
But this is sometimes much more difficult to indicate in other buildings. Meijers: “One old farm is not the same as another. I sometimes see two farms next to each other that look exactly the same to me, but one is recognized as a monument and the other is not."
It may have to do with the building itself, according to the councilor, but sometimes also with its history. “Or from the people who may have lived there in the past,” he adds.
When inventorying the cultural-historical heritage, this is in any case the crucial question in Valkenburg, Meijers explains: "We will have to clearly indicate what is so special about certain buildings and why it is important to be careful with them."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 17, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")