Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Valkenswaard wants to beg the Council of State: 'Deliver us from this monstrous zoning plan!'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 15, 2024 Friday 03:20 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 449 words
Byline: San van Suchtelen
Body


VALKENSWAARD - With the help of the Council of State, Valkenswaard hopes to be rid of the important zoning plan Buitengebied II, an outdated plan full of errors that has been costing the municipality mountains of work and money in defenses for years.
The plan, which regulates and assesses on paper all spatial developments outside the built-up area of ​​the village, hangs like a millstone around the neck of the municipality of Valkenswaard three years after its adoption. The plan is shaky and full of errors. These soon came to light through a total of 26 objections that it provoked from the province, water board, interest groups and residents. 23 of the objections have still not been resolved.
Chances of survival zero
Although the municipality tried to save the flawed plan with patching and repair work, it was overtaken by new rules for water and nitrogen, and the Environmental Act. A cocktail that makes the legal chance of survival of the zoning plan virtually impossible, is the conclusion in the town hall.
And so the municipal council would like to get rid of the plan as quickly as possible. “A sour apple, but I fear we will all have to get through it,” councilor Theo Geldens told the city council on Thursday. "We cannot continue with this 'dragon'. It costs us a ton a year!”
National first
So cry out and start over. Not with an integrated plan for the entire rural area, but with several separate plans, linked to sub-areas. In the meantime, the council would like to ask the Council of State to stop all ongoing objection procedures in the hope that it will annul the criticized plan. If the court agrees to this, this would be a national first.
It is not yet entirely clear what the consequences of this step will be for the objections and contested plans. "Anyone who has an irrevocable permit does not have to fear or demolish anything," assured lawyer Merel Copier on behalf of the municipality. "What was still being processed will soon first be tested against the old zoning plan for Outer Area I, but it runs the risk of being destroyed." to become." No one dared to comment on the financial consequences of the debacle on Thursday.
To assure
The council responded to the municipal council's intention with great concern. “What if the Council of State soon sets an unattainable deadline for us to draw up a new plan,” wondered PvdA councilor Henk Jonkers. “If the agencies don't have time to help us now, why do they have time later?”
Councilor Geldens: "I would be surprised if the Council of State sets us such a deadline. Moreover, we still have the old plan for the rural area.”
The municipal council will make a decision on the proposal in May.

Load Date: March 15, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")