Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=From farming neighborhood to cesspool, what went wrong in the Boekelse Elzen?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 11, 2023 Saturday 06:41 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 1070 words
Byline: Kees Backx
Body


BOEKEL - The Boekel hamlet of De Elzen in Boekel has been in the news a lot in recent years. And it's always about the smell of shit, nuisance from heavy agricultural traffic, flies and birds. The solution still seems far away. How did it ever get to this point?
Anyone driving from Volkel to Boekel cannot miss it: a pungent smell of shit. Comes from two large pig farms in the De Elzen hamlet: that of Ronnie Braks and that of Machiel Coppens. Together they have tens of thousands of pigs. But the stench is not the only thing: the entire environment in the area is thoroughly ruined: particulate matter, heavy agricultural traffic on the narrow roads, nuisance from flies and seagulls. Measurements by research agencies, such as that of Pouderoyen-Tonnaer in 2019, indicate that living there is unhealthy.
De Elzen was once an ordinary neighborhood, a farming community, like so many in Brabant. Located on the north-west side of the village, on a street called De Elzen and intersected by several roads: Molenbrand, Molenakker and Neerbroek. There were small farms with some pig stables.
Little reason to complain
But that changed from 2005 onwards. One farmer after another quit. Large companies came back and slowly but surely the mess that it is today emerged. This had everything to do with the Reconstruction Act, which led to so-called agricultural development areas (LOGs). Areas specifically intended for large agricultural companies.
Throughout the country, agricultural organizations fought for larger building plots for farmers. But not in Boekel, because the farmers there had little reason to complain
In Boekel, however, the municipality had already enlarged the building plots for farmers in a new zoning plan to such an extent that they had little need to move to such a LOG. Throughout the country, agricultural organizations fought for larger building plots for farmers. But not in Boekel, because the farmers there had little reason to complain.
Bought away
One of the causes of the odor is without a doubt Machiel Coppens (53), born on the edge of De Elzen. Son of Harrie Coppens, who had a pig farm there. At the age of 24, Machiel started a similar company at Keizersberg in Elsendorp. With 7,500 pigs, he is already one of the largest pig farmers in the region. And a stink producer.
There were so many complaints from the neighborhood about odors that the municipality of Gemert-Bakel bought the company in 2003 as part of the Regional Reconstruction De Peel. For a total of six million euros, half of which will be covered by the province and the other half by the municipality. A hefty price, but in retrospect Gemert-Bakel avoided a lot of misery.
In a mash kitchen, food waste is mixed and processed into pig feed. This causes a huge stench in the area
Two years earlier, in 2001, Machiel Coppens bought several stables from his father in Boekel at Molenakker 5 and later also the underlying company from his brother-in-law at Molenbrand 9. This created a large empire in a short time where almost thirty thousand pigs 'live'.
Food waste processed into pig feed
 The neighborhood initially notices little of Coppens' company, which actually consists of three companies located close to each other. Until 2009, when the stench also got out of hand in Boekel. Partly due to Coppens' soup kitchen.
In such a mash kitchen, food waste is supplied on a large scale by tanker trucks. The slurry is mixed and processed into pig feed. This causes a huge stench in the area. A manure processor from Coppens also does the same, for which the municipality - as it turned out wrongly - had granted a permit. It's raining complaints from the neighborhood. The province ultimately revokes the permit. To the anger of Coppens, who holds the municipality responsible. From that moment on, the pig farmer and the municipality regularly meet in court.
Flying and traffic
At the beginning of 2009, pig farmer Henk van Boerdonk died at De Elzen 6a at the age of 51. Almost two years later, pig farmer Ronnie Braks from Odiliapeel buys Van Boerdonks' company for a total of 3.4 million euros. This may explain why Braks now wanted 3.7 million from the municipality of Boekel for the restructuring of the company, partly in permits for homes, the construction of a solar park and another million in his account. Soon after the purchase, residents near Braks' company started complaining about stenches, flies landing directly from carcasses on the meat on their barbecues in their gardens, and heavy traffic for the supply and removal of pigs and animal feed.
A research and consultancy agency shows that the air quality at De Elzen is very poor
At about the same time, in 2010, Boekelaar Ad van den Boom purchased Toon van de Mezenberg's agricultural and pig company at De Elzen 10a. This has now grown into an agricultural company of 400 hectares and a pig farm with a permit for a total of three thousand animals, pigs for fattening and weaned piglets. The company also has a small manure processor that Van den Boom uses for his agricultural business. The stench is not present here either.
Cry for help to the municipality
Ultimately, the neighborhood takes action. She won't take it anymore. A working group is created that lists the complaints in a cry for help to the municipality. Finally, the municipal council and the municipal executive also see that things can no longer continue like this. The council is making hundreds of thousands of euros available to hire a research and consultancy agency and a so-called area director. The agency shows that the air quality at De Elzen is very poor, the area director is trying to get everyone on the same page and to persuade entrepreneurs to have their companies remediated. In one case (Van den Heuvel) this succeeded, in another case (Van den Boom) only partially.
The biggest odor causes, Coppens and Braks, are still there. And as things stand now, it will remain that way for years to come. There is a cooperation agreement with Coppens, but before all his improvement plans are realized, according to the municipality, it will take at least ten years before the neighborhood notices the odor reduction. We are waiting for the Environmental Act to come into effect in January. Health aspects will then also be taken into account in spatial planning and odor causes can be expected to be better controlled.

Load Date: November 12, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")