Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Soil pollution
The Gelderlander
February 13, 2021 Saturday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Z De Gelderlander; Page 4, 5
Length: 1547 words
Body


Over the past ten years, governments and companies have started to tackle so-called 'emergency locations' in particular. Together this cost the government more than a billion euros. It appears difficult to determine what companies' share in the remediation costs was.

The Clean East therefore asked the ninety municipalities in the east of the country, the provinces of Gelderland and Overijssel and the seven water boards what they paid for remediation between 2010 and 2020 and what the total costs of those remediations were. Based on the responses alone, it could be concluded that the government will cover approximately 80 percent of the remediation costs. The problem is that governments have little insight into this cost distribution. Companies also do not get beyond vague estimates. According to director Henri Schouten of the Bodembeheer Nederland foundation, which provides subsidies on behalf of the government and arranges remediation for companies, the ratio is 'at least a factor of four' more in costs that companies incur. But that's just a vague estimate.

The lack of insight is not only a problem that Het Schone Oosten and Investico encounter. It is also an observation by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. On January 22, it published a study into the 'effectiveness' of national soil policy. This could not be determined because an important part of the tasks in the field of soil and subsoil have been decentralized to municipalities and provinces. "Based on the available source material, a comparable assessment of effectiveness was not possible," is the conclusion.

The observation that governments in Eastern Netherlands pay much more than market parties nevertheless seems justified. Large municipalities arrive at estimates of a 20 to a maximum of 50 percent contribution from the market. So the rest is public money.
The infamous mountain
Why is it not possible to make the polluter pay? For that, experts say, you have to go back to 1975 and to the infamous HCH mountain in the eastern Netherlands. Until 1977, there was an enormous pile on the Akzo site in Hengelo containing thousands of tons of extremely toxic remains of the insecticide HCH produced there. Hundreds of places in Twente became contaminated due to relocations. In 2006, research showed that there is approximately 350,000 tons of HCH-contaminated soil in the Netherlands, especially in the east of the country. Cleaning up cost tens of millions and was only partially done. The HCH (wrapped in foil) is still underground here and there in Twente.

A state lawsuit against Akzo lasted seventeen years. In 2001, the Supreme Court decided that those who caused environmental pollution before 1975 cannot be held liable. That is why the government cannot recover the costs of remediation from them. That statement had major consequences. Many soil contaminations in the Netherlands date from before 1975. Only since 1987 has the perpetrator been legally obliged to eliminate new contamination themselves.

The fact that the government often gets the short end of the stick is evident, for example, in Ede, where the municipality and province voluntarily took responsibility in 2006 for the remediation of groundwater contaminated by the Enka sponge factory. Even without knowing what it would cost. "Common practice," says the municipality of Ede in a response. When costs were disappointing eight years ago, Enka was left out of harm's way. The government believed that it was not in accordance with a 'reliable government' to declare a clause inserted precisely for these types of situations applicable.

The irony is that the same 'trustworthy government' has repeatedly changed its policies and legislation since the 1980s, and this has actually worked to the advantage of companies. In fact, entrepreneurs were and are advised to leave everything aside and only do something about it as soon as there are human, ecological or spread risks or when construction is taking place at the contaminated location. That is allowed.

"In the Netherlands, we have agreed with each other about pollution from before 1987 that if there is no need for remediation, the contamination can remain until a 'natural moment' such as construction activities. That is why remediation cannot be enforced until that moment," says Wilbert Kroon, lawyer at KroonDeKeijzer Advocatuur and specializes in soil cases. "The owner of land who waits for this is often rewarded because legislation and regulations change or remediation techniques improve. We have seen this before with the transition from multifunctional to function-oriented remediation. It was then sufficient to renovate to a level that allowed for the new use. is safe."

Remediation costs of locations that have not been classified as 'urgent' can therefore be postponed to the future. "As a rule, a municipality cannot enforce remediation," says Kroon. "If the municipality has a major interest in rapid development, then I can imagine that there are circumstances in which a legitimate argument arises for a municipality to purchase the location or to bear (part of) the remediation costs. "

Sometimes a government can still appeal to a site owner in due course. But it must first be proven that the owner also knew about the presence of the pollution. This is called 'guilty owner'. However, it is quite a challenge to prove that the polluter or landowner is responsible for pollution. Governments therefore often avoid legal proceedings.
Area-oriented remediation
"We do not achieve that 75 percent market contribution. I think the contribution from third parties is now 20 percent," says Ab Brand, policy advisor at the municipality of Zwolle. He is co-architect of the Zwolle system of so-called area-oriented remediation. "We calculated at the time that we would need 120 million euros if we were to tackle all pollution traditionally: remediate each location separately, everyone would then pump up water for themselves, clean it, etc. With an area-specific approach we would save 12.5 million the feet can,” said Brand.

The Zwolle approach means that a polluter becomes responsible for remediating the 'source'. This often involves excavating dirty soil at the surface. The deeper contamination, in the groundwater, can pay off the polluter. And you can't get away with it, like in Ede. The groundwater contamination is being remediated by the municipality. There is a benefit for the municipality, because it no longer has to prove who owns the pollution.

The polluter is assured that his land is clean and that the municipality will never visit him again. "There are several municipalities that now work with lump sum payments and you see that it usually stagnates at 50 to 60 percent of the locations that they can buy off. I am quite proud that we are at 100 percent," says Brand.

Governments are therefore unable to get the business community to contribute to cleaning operations. But at least governments are cleaning up the mess. More than five hundred emergency locations have been 'handled' in the past ten years. But we have not yet been financially relieved of the emergency locations that have already been 'handled'. Most are not 'remediated' at all, but 'controlled'. At this point they no longer pose a risk. Often a large part of the pollution is still in the ground, whether or not wrapped in foil. These locations do require aftercare and must be constantly monitored. Governments have already set aside 140 million euros for this purpose over the next ten years.

'Control' and 'management' are also increasingly being chosen for new pollution. The municipality of West Betuwe, near the village of Spijk, choked on this. The municipality and water board must supervise the remediation of a noise barrier at a golf course for another eight years and possibly monitor the situation for another 25 years. Together this will cost the municipality 4.5 million euros.

Therein lies the great danger of 'managing' soil pollution: anyone who leaves poison in the ground always takes a risk. If all the estimated costs of 'coincidental finds', 'new threats', 'aftercare' and 'management' are added up, the costs will again effortlessly reach one billion over the next ten years. This could easily be the case again in the following ten years.
Smart approach
A smart approach, partly aimed at recovering costs from polluters and landowners, seems to be a prerequisite to prevent taxpayers from bearing the majority of the costs again. Zwolle's area-oriented approach is an example of how all municipalities will soon have to deal with pollution with the introduction of the Environmental Act. After all, they will then have all the soil tasks on their plate

But that is exactly where the pain lies: Zwolle is a relatively large municipality with an official apparatus that can handle this task and a board that has given this priority for years in a row. This is not the case for countless municipalities in the Netherlands. They will soon be on their own. The province of Gelderland has already dismantled its Soil department a year before the time comes.

Visit dg.nl/pollution for a map of pollution, an explanation of the research, a video and a podcast.

View the original page: page 4, page 5

Load Date: February 12, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")