Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Van Rey is back: the victory of a street fighter
The Limburger
May 28, 2022 Saturday
Maastricht


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: ANALYSIS; coalition Roermond; Page 9
Length: 710 words
Byline: Gertie Driessen
Body


Jos van Rey has done it. He will be the second councilor for the Liberal People's Party of Roermond, formateur Dirk Franssen announced yesterday. How a street fighter fought back.
It can change. While the entire coalition wanted to send Jos van Rey home through the back door in 2016 after his first conviction, six years later he walks through the front door into the city hall to take a seat on the plush. The street fighter is back. Thanks to formateur Dirk Franssen, who played the negotiation game smartly.
GroenLinks, which from the outset argued for reinforcement on the left flank, was finally given the PvdA as a 'gift'. The return: Jos van Rey accepted as councilor.
Undisguised pleasure
The CDA also did that, but five parties with six aldermen was one wheel too many on the wagon. After all, the approach was a compact college. So the Christian Democrats quit at the last minute, a decision that the LVR undoubtedly took with undisguised satisfaction, given the eternal animosity with the Christian Democrats. It was CDA faction leader Marc Breugelmans who climbed to the podium in the council chamber on behalf of the entire coalition in 2016 and called on the former VVD celebrity to give up his council seat.
The CDA's participation in the coalition negotiations surprised friend and foe from the start. Not only because the party had fallen to a historic low with three seats, but also because of the difficult relationship with the LVR, which outgoing councilor Angely Waajen regularly showed every corner of the council chamber. A constructive collaboration between the two parties seemed an illusion in advance.
Rehabilitation
That Jos van Rey comes out of a box like a jack of all trades at the age of 77 will not surprise those who know him. All his time in opposition he had only one thing in mind: rehabilitation. Reparation for the way in which he was undermined in his eyes and excluded for eight years. The former VVD leader partly forced his own comeback through an extremely aggressive approach to opposition. On the other hand, the city council itself also contributed due to a lack of decisiveness. And not to forget the financial mess it has made with the official reorganization.
Seen from that perspective, many Roermond residents will not be sad about the return of the former VVD leader. The city wants to move forward. In many cases no progress is made. The V&D building has been empty for years. The completion of the Roer Delta district and the redevelopment of the port are not going smoothly. The same applies to the plans for more recreation on the Maasplassen. The permit to start various activities on the old Philips site has still not been finalized and there are numerous examples. Moreover, citizens want a city hall where things are in order and you do not have to wait months for an answer.
Van Rey will undoubtedly regain momentum. Gas on the shelf. The only question is whether he has learned his lesson in the sense that he realizes that sun kings are now outdated institutions. El Rey, as he was called for years, can no longer sit on his throne and determine as sole ruler what is good for the people. Citizens have become a lot more vocal in the past ten years and will soon have the right to participate in the discussion through the Environmental Act. Officials of the past have been replaced and the young generation no longer trembles when they hear the name Jos van Rey.
Counteract
Last but not least: there will certainly no longer be an alderman who pees in the council if Van Rey wants to push through a decision that the rest do not like, as once happened in a council in which Van Rey was an alderman. Especially with a strong left flank - Marianne Smitsmans and Lynn Rulkens in the background as party leader of the PvdA - the much-needed pushback from a few resolute ladies is assured.
On the other hand, times are going to be difficult for another lady, mayor Rianne Donders. Donders and Van Rey are, as the French so nicely call it, caractères incompatibles, incompatible personalities. And the CDA, which supported the mayor through thick and thin, has been skillfully sidelined.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: May 27, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")