Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Getting stuck in the pool, it was just an incident...
The Gelderlander
August 3, 2022 Wednesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 4, 5
Length: 922 words
Byline: HANS NIJENHUIS
Highlight: Being trapped underwater in a pool and drowning - it's a tragedy that is unfortunately becoming more common. Relatives are committed to better legislation.
Body


Drowning
No, you are not sucked from one side of the pool to the other by the pump that takes the water to a waterfall, slide or to the purification system. There is also no strong undercurrent, as is sometimes the case in the sea. But if you play with a water inlet, accidentally lean against it or get your hair tangled in it, things can go terribly wrong, says Mark Koudijs, who inspects swimming pools for his job.

Water in a swimming pool is constantly pumped around, Koudijs explains. To guide it past a filter system. Or to a playground equipment. In modern swimming pools you see water flowing over the edge and disappearing into a gutter. In older pools there are openings beneath the water surface through which the water is sucked away.
power
If a pool only has one such opening, or if the pipes are actually too thin for the capacity of the pump, the suction can be with such force that a swimmer stands with his back against that opening, or ' covers it with his hand and is sucked into it. A vacuum is created, says Koudijs. "The force can become so great that it is impossible to pull someone loose as long as the pump continues to run." Another risk is that long hair is sucked into the opening from close by. "The hair can then get tangled behind the grille."

It doesn't have to be this way, Koudijs emphasizes. There are numerous technical solutions. "Most pools where swimming is the core business have their systems in order."

For example, 269 Dutch swimming pools have the Safe & Clean Quality Mark, with which they voluntarily indicate that they adhere to certain rules. Point 29 of the quality mark: 'Measures regarding underwater entrapment and suction protection.'

But there are 1500 swimming pools in the Netherlands. Also at campsites and holiday parks. "The fewer grilles, the fewer pipes, the lower costs," Koudijs summarizes. The level of knowledge today is very different than in the past, which means that the risks of suction grilles are taken into account considerably more in new swimming pools, he adds. But many of those forty or fifty year old swimming pools are still in use. And digging out pipes to install a new system is expensive.
Blue Cap Foundation
Unfortunately, things go wrong more often. In Germany, parents of drowned children have founded a foundation, parents4safety, which maintains a list of accidents from all over the world. There is one every month. In the Netherlands there is The Blue Cap Foundation, founded by the grandfather of Willem van Wijk, a then 12-year-old boy who drowned in Tuscany in 2010 after being sucked to a swimming pool grate. Willem liked to wear a blue cap, hence the name. The foundation also maintained a list for years, but at a certain point there was a lack of manpower, says chairman Chris Geurts van Kessel. And it won't get the children back.

Geurts van Kessel is a good friend of the family and, as a former director of Gasunie, he is familiar with safety issues. He was having a bad day when he heard the news from France. "So bad!" First of all for that family. But also a bit for the foundation, because it was founded at the time to improve safety, not to remain necessary forever. “When will our work ever be done?”

The foundation started research in Italy at the time: were other children also at risk? Then: why would it only be in Italy? "Spain, Greece and the all-inclusive resorts in Turkey, we looked everywhere and unfortunately: there too there are unnecessarily dangerous situations," says Geurts van Kessel. And the Netherlands? "Southern Europe, mafia, they don't have their affairs in order, we were told. But when we also applied the safety test we developed ourselves here, you guessed it."
New law
Since then, The Blue Cap Foundation has been campaigning for better regulation. The foundation has come a long way. The old Swimming Water Act from 1969 has been replaced by a new one, which, in addition to long passages about the quality of the water, also contains passages about the prevention of entrapment, provided by the foundation. However, the law has become part of a much broader Environmental Act and its entry into force has been postponed time and time again. It is now expected to be January 1, 2023. A European system of standards, for which the foundation has also provided input, is also coming.

Will the needless loss of young lives finally come to an end? Every swimming pool owner must in any case make a risk analysis, says Geurts van Kessel. Concrete measures to limit these risks are then left to the industry. "But in the event of an accident, the judge will really look at whether the swimming pool owner could have reasonably prevented it. Because he had made a risk analysis."

"Realize that swimming always involves risks," Inspector Koudijs would like to say. "And you can limit those risks." Explore the swimming pool, tell children how dangerous those grilles are, tie long hair in a braid or bun or tuck them under a swimming cap. If things go wrong, trying to roll someone off a grid has a better chance than pulling. And if the hair gets tangled: shout for scissors. The tips are also on the website of The Blue Cap Foundation.

Willem van Wijk would have turned 25 this month.
The fewer grids, the fewer pipes, the lower costs

View the original page: page 4, page 5

Load Date: August 2, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")