Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Amazement at building plans in the garden at the monastery
The Limburger
December 21, 2023 Thursday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 45 VILLAS; Page 4
Length: 413 words
Body


The municipality of Echt-Susteren has received requests for the construction of 45 villas in the garden of the monastery in Koningsbosch. However, according to the municipality, as long as there is no prospect of restoration of the monastery, there can be no housing construction.
The operating agreement concluded between the municipality and the owner of the monastery states that at least a quarter of the monastery must be restored before villas can even be considered in the plan area. The municipality has not received an application for restoration of the monastery. Councilor Hub Meuwissen therefore expects that the 45 separate applications for building permits will be rejected, pointing to the operating agreement as the reason. When asked for an explanation for the remarkable applications, he cannot provide an answer.
Turmoil
"Every application is tested against existing regulations," says Meuwissen. "In this case you can almost tell the outcome in advance. I therefore regret that this is causing commotion again in Koningsbosch, while clear agreements have been laid down in the operating agreement. The time of submission may have something to do with the introduction of the Environmental Act on January 1, when the rules for permits change. But even then I have no explanation for the villa applications, because no work has been announced monastery itself."
Developments at the monastery in Koningsbosch have been at a standstill for several years. An original plan for a luxurious Hilton hotel fell through because the then owner did not pass a screening for the Bibob law. A new owner announced that he wanted to continue with the plans, but did not agree with the position of the municipality of Echt-Susteren regarding the link between housing construction and the restoration of the monastery.
For sale
The villas were suddenly offered for sale a year ago on the website of a real estate agent in Molenhoek, North Limburg. Two weeks later the monastery itself was also put up for sale. That also caused surprise among politicians at the time.
Meuwissen said at the time that there was hardly any contact with the owner of the monastery. That is not the case now either. There are still two legal proceedings underway in which the link between the restoration and the construction of the villas is also being tested. The owner of the monastery could not be reached yesterday.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: December 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")