Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=(Re)construction without a permit, light pole at sports field turned off later and the farmer is allowed to produce a little more stench: this new law regulates
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 14, 2024 Sunday 12:10 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 947 words
Byline: Pim Dikkers, Paul Driessen
Body


DEN BOSCH - One law for all, all for one law. The Environmental Act, which finally came into effect in the new year, would make life simpler, faster and better for both citizens and governments. But: just be patient, please.
Long awaited, finally arrived after five postponements: the Environmental Act. It is also called the largest legislative change since the introduction of the Constitution in 1848 (!). But what do you notice about it as an average resident, entrepreneur or farmer? The short answer: not so much yet.
Operation Environmental Act is so complex that (local) authorities have until 2032 before the one new law that replaces dozens of old laws (and hundreds of rules) comes into full effect. But then you will have something by then.
Everything you see, hear and smell
The Environmental Act is of course not called that for nothing. Everything you see, hear and smell in your own living environment is included. The new law, which officially came into effect on January 1 this year, should make life easier for residents who want to build, do business or organize and for the civil servants who work on their wishes.
One of the most important changes: there is now one digital counter for permit applications and with all rules and plans from municipalities, provinces, water boards and the national government. Very clear.
Why should rules for a park in the countryside not differ from those for a sports field in the middle of the city?
That is exactly what the Environmental Act should become: clear. Within the next ten years, municipalities must also draw up one comprehensive environmental plan for everything that takes place within their own municipal boundaries. That plan replaces all those different zoning plans and rules.
These kept piling up over the last decades, making it a paper mess. In fact, all those different plans, laws and rules started to get in each other's way.
Den Bosch wants to be the first in Brabant
Compare it to a cluttered attic: you have to clean it out every now and then to keep an overview. The environmental plan is that one storage box where you keep all the things that are still important. The municipality of Den Bosch hopes to be ready with it in a few years and will then be one of the first in Brabant.
It is expected that the content of the first environmental plans will not differ much from the old laws and regulations. The idea is to first get the basics in order.
Then the time will come when municipal councils are allowed (and probably dared) to push the buttons themselves a little more. For example, they can decide that residents can now build certain houses without an environmental permit, carry out major renovations, that farmers are allowed to produce a little more stench or that written permission is not required to organize a festival for up to a certain number of visitors.
By then, there may be quite a few differences between municipalities. The province or central government only intervene when things get out of line, for example when one farmer is allowed much more than his fellow farmer who is just on the other side of the municipal border.
Lights off between 11:00 PM and 7:00 AM
The new law gives local government more options to do things a little differently. Take light poles at sports complexes. The government now determines for the entire country that they should normally be turned off between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m.
Municipalities pushed through a mountain of draft zoning plans before January 1, even though they were not actually ready yet
But why should rules for a park in the countryside not differ from those for a sports field in the middle of the city? There are no local residents in the polder who are bothered by those light beams, which may therefore burn longer.
As easy as it should be to apply for permits or go through other procedures, it is not yet that simple. The current zoning plans will be frozen until municipalities have completed the new environmental plan. That will really take years. In the meantime, major changes will require a different permit and will likely take more time to complete than before.
Thousands of zoning plans
That is why municipalities pushed through a mountain of draft zoning plans before January 1, even though they were not actually ready yet. The province received 1,250 of these plans for assessment in the last month and a half of the year, approximately 1,000 more than normal in such a period.
For residents, the new law means that it becomes easier to see which permit is required and to apply for it
Current applications may still be processed in the old way. This gives the municipalities more peace to work on the new environmental plan.
For residents, the new law means that it becomes easier to see which permit is required and to apply for it. Sometimes permission isn't even needed anymore. However, municipalities also saw a huge increase in the number of environmental and building permits applied for before the turn of the year. As if residents wanted to get ahead of the introduction of the Environmental Act and would rather be judged according to the old rules and laws.
The freedom to build is a joy for some, but can be a burden for others. Unlike now, objections will soon have to be made when the environmental plan is established for the entire municipality and not only when the neighbor has concrete plans for a house or shed.
That requires something from residents. That they ensure that they stay informed of changes made by local politics. Own responsibility, although the government is also obliged to share the message as widely as possible.

Load Date: January 14, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")