Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Renovation permit cheapest in Roermond
The Limburger
August 25, 2021 Wednesday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 362 words
Byline: Rik Van Hulst
Body


Where residents of Roermond pay 185 euros for a permit for a minor renovation (up to 10,000 euros), in Heerlen it costs 609 euros. An "inexplicably large difference", says the Eigen Huis Association, which conducted research into it.
Nationally, Roermond is one of the six municipalities with the lowest rates. The Own Home Association
(VEH) believes that the large differences in fees between municipalities "cannot be explained to buyers and homeowners." Another large difference can be seen in South Limburg: residents of Simpelveld pay more than half more for the permit at 577 euros than further away in Beekdaelen (240 euros).
As a rule, a permit must be requested from the municipality for renovations to the front or side of a home, a VEH spokesperson explains.
The municipality often calculates fees for the treatment in its own way. "The building permits are the same throughout the country and yet there are huge differences. How is that possible? There is no mandatory prescribed cost model. Municipalities determine the system and price themselves. One municipality only calculates the hours of the civil servant, the other also takes into account costs for the building in which the civil servant works."
In Limburg, it was notable this year that the municipality of Mook en Middelaar significantly reduced the administrative costs by about 37 percent. Residents now pay 250 euros for a permit for a minor renovation.
In Roerdalen, these costs increased by more than 19 percent to 460 euros. A spokesperson said that "the costs have been recalculated on behalf of the council. Although the rate has increased, this is also because there have been no increases in previous years."
In addition to the costs for a minor renovation, the construction fees for new-build homes (up to 170,000 euros) also vary, according to the VEH. In Limburg, Sittard-Geleen is the leader (8,243 euros).
Residents in Peel and Maas pay a lot cheaper at 2,238 euros, making it the lowest rate nationally after The Hague (1,700 euros).
The VEH calls on the cabinet to use the introduction of the new Environmental Act on July 1 next year to combat the excesses in rates between municipalities.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 18, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")