Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Excavation discoveries disrupt rapid construction of homes in and around the Malden church. Disappointing, because 'the market is good'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 20, 2024 Saturday 12:02 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 371 words
Byline: Leo Klaassen
Body


The construction of thirty homes next to and in the H. Antonius Abtkerk in Malden will not start for the time being. During an initial investigation in the parsonage garden, so many archaeological traces were found that much more digging will have to be done.
“Then you are also talking about matters from Roman times and before,” says Jeroen van den Adel, owner of project developer AdVicus. “A few hundred square meters need to be exposed. If we are lucky, from the perspective of the project, they will not find anything that is really important.”
“Or perhaps it is only necessary to properly map the tracks. In the worst case, there is something really special and we have to adjust the construction plan. Then, for example, the parking garage would become difficult.”
This year
It is still unclear when the more extensive excavation work will take place. Van den Adel hopes to have the historical investigators up and running 'as soon as possible'. It is certain that valuable time is lost. “There are more things that we have to tackle before we can really get started. I hope that we can really start building this year. The market is good.”
AdVicus previously hoped to start construction in 2023. Coordination with greening plans that the municipality of Heumen has with Kerkplein, among other things, caused delays. AdVicus and Heumen do not yet agree on the distribution of the costs of water management around the current church building and the new construction.
Another uncertain factor: the new Environmental Act came into effect on January 1, which means that the municipality and developer must go through brand new procedures. It is unclear whether this will cause delays.
Church hall
The housing project consists of several parts. Six apartments will be built in one part of the church. A building with nine homes will be built on the site of the current parsonage, and a block with fifteen apartments in the garden. The church hall will be considerably reduced in size, so that it can accommodate 'only' 350 people.
According to Van den Adel, it makes no sense to start renovating the current church building: "That is the most expensive part. Then I start with the cost generator and it will be a long wait before you start with the part that earns the money. That doesn't make sense.”

Load Date: January 20, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")