Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Licensing of inefficient ODRN more expensive
The Gelderlander
March 10, 2020 Tuesday
Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3, 7
Length: 405 words
Byline: FRANK HERMANS
Highlight: Environmental service ODRN becomes more expensive. Permits are going up in price. The hourly wage that the Nijmegen Region Environmental Service charges for the supervisory work of its employees is also increasing.
Body


In addition, ODRN will adopt a more businesslike attitude when called upon by municipalities. “We will no longer start working automatically, as is currently the case. First, the working agreements and financing must be crystal clear, then we only start," said a spokesperson for the ODRN.

The new working method follows the loss that ODRN has suffered for the second year in a row. Last year the deficit was 1.2 million euros. The measures are being taken after an independent researcher showed that employees are systematically 'underbudgeting'. An hourly rate is charged that is too low compared to the costs. The conclusion is also that the environmental service works too inefficiently.
Fire safety
In addition to Nijmegen, the service works for Berg en Dal, Beuningen, Druten, Heumen and Wijchen. The province of Gelderland also falls under the cooperation arrangement that started in 2013. Since then, around two hundred employees in the aforementioned municipalities have been responsible for fire safety, tree felling permits, environmental and building supervision and supervision of hazardous substances, advertising and, for example, illegal room rental.

According to a spokesperson, the inefficient way of working is partly due to a complicated permit system. “We took this over from the municipality of Nijmegen in 2013. We are still working with the same time-consuming software," she says.

Another problem is the high workload, which results in extra absenteeism due to illness. “We are regularly asked to do more by the municipalities. We suddenly had to pull out all the stops when, for example, illegal room rental was on the political agenda. But normal work cannot be left behind."

The higher absenteeism due to illness means that relatively expensive employees have to be recruited from outside temporarily.

To alleviate the initial financial need, the hourly rates will increase by 6 euros to 93 euros per hour. Applying for an environmental permit will also cost more than previously planned. As of July 1, the rate will not increase by 2.6, but by 2.7 percent. That produces 1 to 2 tons of extra income per year.
Construction rules
A point of attention for the ODRN is also the introduction of the Environmental Act as of January 1, 2021. Local building rules that may differ per municipality will be harmonized where possible. Rules therefore become more general and easier to monitor.
We work
still
with the same one
time-consuming software

View the original page: page 3, page 7

Load Date: March 9, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")