Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Raising the Kessel dike will not take place for the time being
The Limburger
September 21, 2017 Thursday
Roermond


Copyright 2017 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 4
Length: 557 words
Byline: BY PIETERNEL KELLENAERS
Body


 Flood Protection
KESSEL
Raising the dike along the Maas in Kessel will not take place for the time being. The Limburg Water Board has informed the residents of the village of this.
This meets the wishes of local residents who do not believe the dike heightening is necessary and who offered 140 signatures in protest at the beginning of this year. They believe that raising the dike is an unnecessarily large investment given the low risk and also an unnecessary damage to the landscape.
The Limburg Water Board, together with local and provincial politicians and Rijkswaterstaat, will try to get the dike heightening on the Haagweg out of the Water Act so that it does not have to be 1.5 to 2 meters higher. According to the Water Board, this is possible because the residents protected by the dike unanimously do not want that increase and because the high ground behind it makes it unnecessary for the rest of the village. Removing the process from the Water Act is a process that will take several years, partly because the necessary matters have to be sorted out, says environmental manager Marita Cals of the Limburg Water Board.
 Water Act
“Initially we must go through a formal consultation procedure.
Then a time must be found to remove the flood defense from the Water Act, which obliges us to strengthen the dike due to the higher risk of high water in the future due to climate change.
We have already heard from The Hague that now is not a logical time to do this as the ink on the last change in the law of January 1 this year is only just dry. The evaluation of the law in 2023 could be a moment or perhaps a little earlier if the Environmental Act is amended."
Many matters still need to be sorted out in order to remove the barely 200 meter long dike in Kessel from the Water Act. Cals: "If it remains a kind of dike, who will pay for the maintenance and what requirements must it meet? And who is liable if residents behind the dike get their feet wet? The legal consequences must be carefully investigated for all parties.
Moreover, the Water Board now formally still has a duty of care, but how do we arrange this until 2023 if nothing is done about the dike? Finally, the government wants to know whether there are other similar cases in the Netherlands. Since Limburg has had many young small dikes since the high tide in 1995, there may still be a few cases."
The plans for dike reinforcement are being shelved for the time being. If it is not possible to remove the dike in Kessel from the Water Act, it will be raised by a maximum of 2 meters.
The other two options of extending the dike or moving it towards the Maas are not preferable, as was also announced last night.
Cals: "When you move, you reduce the winter bed and that is undesirable. Moreover, these alternatives have a major impact on the landscape and have no support among residents and administrators."
 Risk
An additional dike to protect the area between Markt and Ondersteweg in Kessel, as suggested at the first residents' meeting in February, has not yet been considered.
Cals: “That only concerns a limited number of homes with a small risk of flooding. This is disproportionate to the effects on the landscape associated with the construction of a dike. High water can only play a role there from 2075 onwards."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 21, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")