Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Extend the term of municipal councilors to six years
NRC
March 9, 2022 Wednesday
1st Edition


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION; Page 18
Length: 853 words
Byline: Hans Vollaard
Body


ABSTRACT
A longer term of office than the current four years allows council members to better stand up for their residents, writes Hans Vollaard.
COMPLETE TEXT:
The municipal councilors we elect next month will serve four years. Those four years are too short. A longer term of office ensures that council members can build up more experience and stand up for their residents more effectively. This is more necessary than ever now that local democracy is under so much pressure. There have been major concerns about municipal democracy for decades. For example, the Social and Cultural Planning Office (SCP) stated in 1994 that "there has been talk of a crisis in local government for decades". The PvdA think tank stated as early as 1971 that "the influence of the council on decision-making is completely inadequate". At the time, councilors were poorly informed by aldermen and did not have the knowledge or time to understand complex problems, while the government left municipal councils few choices, and regional cooperation further limited the influence and control of municipal councils. The bond between citizens and government left much to be desired.
These complaints have not diminished. This is now extra worrying, because municipalities have more responsibilities than before, such as youth care and social support. While they often do it in addition to a regular job, there is more work to be done for council members. They must determine policy in more complex policy areas such as labor reintegration. Local policy often takes shape in regional partnerships with neighboring municipalities, such as safety regions and youth care regions. These are difficult to oversee, making it difficult not only to exert influence but also to monitor what the mayor and aldermen do for the municipality. The numerous implementation issues of recent years (allowances, waiting lists in youth care, digital system of the Environment Act, building supervision, etc.) have taught us that representatives must keep the executive power on its toes.
In the meantime, council members also need to know what is going on among residents - whether waste is properly collected in the countryside, whether parents are properly supported in raising children, whether young people with complex problems receive timely help, whether builders and demolition workers properly involve local residents in their plans. , and so on. Furthermore, council members must learn to effectively influence municipal decision-making and implementation. They have to do this in increasingly smaller factions, which means that a councilor follows more and more policy areas and also has to profile himself in relation to all those other factions.
After four years, many council members are starting to get the hang of it, but then there are elections again. Council membership often comes to an end due to rejuvenation on electoral lists and volatile election results. New council members must then build up knowledge and experience in order to learn to effectively counterbalance the executive power with and on behalf of the population.
Council members still give themselves a pass for their work and the workload, residents are not very satisfied with them (they give a 5.4 on a scale of 10). Municipal authorities can no longer simply count on the trust of residents. So something has to be done. There are all kinds of advice, such as better support for municipal councils.
What has not yet been discussed, however, is the extension of their term of office. While that can help. Extension to a period of six years, as in Belgium, gives council members more time to familiarize themselves, delve into the problems of residents, build up experience and get to grips with the files. This way they can shape local government more effectively with and on behalf of the population. With a longer term of office, there are also fewer elections and campaigns. This gives council members more time to delve into complex problems such as housing construction, climate change and safety.
Municipal elections are now the most common way for residents to influence local government and keep politicians on their toes. Extending the term of office therefore appears at first glance to limit the influence of residents. The introduction of a binding referendum at local level is already a first step towards solving that problem. If a municipal government gets too out of line, voters can apply the brakes.
However, it is precisely a longer term of office that can strengthen the bond between government and residents. Council members can thus better understand the concerns of residents, making them better representatives of the people and developing better countervailing power. The government and parliament must therefore initiate the constitutional amendment as soon as possible to support local democracy by extending the term of council members.
After four years, many council members are just starting to get the hang of it
Hans Vollaard is a political scientist at Utrecht University and co-director of the Local Voter Survey 2022.
Link to PDF

Load Date: March 8, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")