Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='In love, engaged, married', that's how long it will take before Best and Oirschot become one municipality
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 11, 2024 Thursday 11:02 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 584 words
Byline: Janske Mollen
Body


BEST/OIRSCHOT - They don't say 'no' in Best, but they don't say 'yes' either to the request of the municipality of Oirschot to merge. "Oirschot has asked for 'courtship', we are going to investigate whether we want that too," said VVD faction leader John Verheijen as chairman of the working group that is pulling this cart in Best.
Because that is the metaphor they want to see in Best for the time being: "Someone asks for a date, then you investigate whether you are suitable for each other, maybe you go on holiday once and then conclude that you part ways there. Or you want to continue together and get engaged to get married later,” Verheijen romanticizes this essentially more business-like process, which they take at least two years.
But they take it that seriously. Because it is no small thing that Oirschot asks: 'Shall we see if we can collaborate at an official level and perhaps merge completely later?'
This involves in-depth conversations and research with and about each other
In Oirschot, this question arises from a report by &Van de Laar, which, at the request of that municipality, examined the patchwork of partnerships. And comes to the conclusion that Oirschot can better untangle this and continue with one partner. Best would be the best potential candidate, because of its location, shared tasks and history.
The Best municipal council is not immediately opposed to this, which is why they now want to investigate the consequences of such a merger. The advantages and disadvantages must be identified in a similar study that Oirschot had carried out.
'Don't compare apples and oranges'
“For us, it is of course less or less about those partnerships, but more about matters that affect both our municipalities: staffing, healthcare issues, the environmental law,” Verheijen explains. "So that we won't be comparing apples and oranges."
Partly for this reason, they would like the council to engage a different agency to conduct that research than &Van de Laar, who did it in Oirschot. “They have already drawn a conclusion. It cannot be the case that the impression will soon be that the researchers aimed for this conclusion. Plus, another agency may come across things that may have been missed before. Think of it as a second opinion.”
'Go, or no-go'
The results of that study are expected before the summer. The Bestse municipal council will then consider whether they want to continue the process based on the conclusions. From then on, the two colleges and the municipal councils will work together. “But with every new step, there is another decision moment for the council,” says Verheijen. “Is it a go or no go?”
Just to be clear, the municipal councils of Best and Oirschot do not really go on holiday together to find out whether they are a good fit for each other. “No, it is about in-depth conversations and research with and about each other.”
Participation or referendum
And if everyone is on the same page and both councils decide to enter the official merger process, an extensive participation process will also be initiated. “With residents, entrepreneurs, authorities,” Verheijen sums up. "So that they can express their views on the advantages and disadvantages that the researchers will mention. And not based on a gut feeling and emotion.”
What that consultation process will look like and to what extent the residents' participation will be taken into account must all be determined gradually. “Even a referendum is a possibility.”

Load Date: January 11, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")