Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Outrage about pollarding willows in the middle of the breeding season: 'What do we get now? This really isn't possible'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
May 10, 2024 Friday 03:31 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 586 words
Byline: Iza de Bruin
Body


Pollarding willows during the breeding season, the farmer is prohibited. So residents and politicians wonder how it is possible that the municipality has been busy pruning trees in several places in Alphen in recent months. “My first thought was: what do we get now?”
Gijsbert de Rijk lives on the Middelweg in Alphen near a large number of willows. According to him, those trees were already pruned last year, which means that it should not necessarily be necessary this year. "My children called me: 'Dad, they are sawing off the branches.' Of course, I immediately approached it.”
De Rijk spoke to the men who were pollarding the willows. “They told me that they have been working in several places within the municipality since April 1.” The willows have now grown plenty of leaves. "Then you can see less clearly whether there are nests. That's why I really don't think it's possible for the municipality to do this. Doesn't it serve as an example?"
“My first thought was: what are we getting?”
What struck De Rijk is that, in his opinion, the presence of nests in the willows was not taken into account at all: "A crane machine with pruning shears drove at the front to do the major work. Only then do the men cut off the branches. It is therefore impossible to check whether there are birds in it. Moreover, the small birds that nest in the cavities do not simply show themselves. This action goes a step too far for me.”
"All native birds, their nests and eggs are protected under the Environmental Act," the spokesperson for Bird Protection said. "It is therefore not allowed to damage their nests and eggs. Pollarding willows during the breeding season is against the law if a bird is breeding in them, because it can be at the expense of the eggs. There is a pruning ban between March 15 and July 15 due to the breeding season. Ducks and other birds can have a nest there.”
De Rijk posted a Facebook message about it, which received several reactions. This also applies to people who said that this also happened near the Zegerplas.
Another person who noticed the post is Ank de Groot, group leader of RijnGouweLokaal. “I am not a bird expert, but I do know that you should only prune this time of year in very exceptional circumstances.” She immediately took action by asking questions. “My first thought was: what do we get? This is really not possible.”
Environmental permit
The councilor continues that there is a possibility that the municipality will prune legally. “If they have an environmental permit, then it is allowed. But I can't imagine that they have a permit for that many willows.”
The province of South Holland grants this permit in a few cases. There must be no other satisfactory solution, there must be a public interest at stake and the measures must not lead to a deterioration of the conservation status of the species concerned.
"An environmental permit for pruning and felling during the breeding season will normally only be granted in exceptional situations, for example if a tree is in danger of falling and poses a danger to public health and public safety," the spokesperson adds.
According to De Groot, Alderman Breeuwsma has now indicated that he will respond quickly. “That is important, because this is urgent.” The municipality cannot yet provide clarity about the situation, because the council must first answer RijnGouweLokaal's questions.

Load Date: May 10, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")