Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Delay Agropark III threatens
The Gelderlander
October 14, 2022 Friday
Betuwe Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 450 words
Byline: JESSE REITH
Highlight: Delay threatens the construction of the Agropark III business park near Huissen. And that costs extra money and may even be at the expense of new jobs in Lingewaard.
Body


Chance of extra costs and missing out on jobs in new business park near Huissen
Jesse Reith

Huissen/Bemmel

That is the warning from the municipal council. Lingewaard wants to speed up construction, but according to the municipality, the province is obstructive. Time is running out for Agropark III. If it is not possible to finalize the zoning plan before the possible entry into force of the Environmental Act on January 1, 2023, there will be delays.

This new law sets different requirements for drawing up zoning plans, meaning that all kinds of studies have to be carried out again. "That would be a shame, because it costs extra time and money," says Lingewaard councilor Maarten van den Bos. He therefore wants clarity from the province of Gelderland quickly.

Until 2006, the land was used by greenhouse horticulturists. Since then, the land has been for sale and a plan to establish companies there is underway. Everything seemed fine, but Lingewaard is now clashing with the province. This requires that it first be demonstrated that there is no demand for the land among greenhouse growers. Lingewaard does not understand that, because no potential buyers from that sector have come forward for years. "It's a shame," councilor Van den Bos calls the course of events. "Everyone is enthusiastic. We are trying to convince the province that it is wise to agree to our plans. Everything is ready."

According to Van den Bos' colleague Johan Sluiter, there is 'a long waiting list' of companies that want to establish themselves on the site. "If we wait too long, there is a risk that they will look for land outside our municipality."

He emphasizes that there will be no transport companies, but companies that require trained, local personnel. Sluiter is thinking of people with a secondary vocational education or higher. “Many of them still travel to places outside our municipality to work. Resulting in enormous pressure on our roads. Agropark III could change that in the future."

Lingewaard has considered publishing the zoning plan without consultation with the province. “To put pressure on,” says Sluiter.

A provincial spokesperson says that it only recently became clear that greenhouse horticulturists have no concrete interest in these lands. According to her, there is 'conditional support' for Agropark III among this group and the uncertainty about this subject has now been 'clarified'. "In order to be allowed to develop a new industrial estate on these lands, the Provincial Council must first make a decision to remove this area from the greenhouse horticulture concentration area."

That has yet to happen. Lingewaard will be informed about this next month.
Everyone is enthusiastic. Everything is ready

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: October 13, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")