Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Delay in processing permits
The Limburger
June 12, 2021 Saturday
RoermondWT


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 319 words
Byline: Rob Stikkelbroeck
Body


Building permits in Maasgouw, Echt-Susteren and Roerdalen may be delayed by several weeks. Because people are building en masse, many more permits are being applied for than estimated.
The service that must assess permit applications is faced with a significant workload among its staff. And that is not so easy to solve, says the municipality of Maasgouw. The Environmental Environmental Service has been consisting of a permanent core of employees and hired workers for several years in order to be able to respond to the changing supply of work. The current problem is the tightness in the labor market. Due to the boom in the construction sector, almost all Dutch municipalities are struggling with this problem, so that the 'hiring pool' is being emptied. In addition, many permanent employees are needed for the introduction of the Environmental Act in mid-2022, which should simplify the permit system.
In the first quarter of 2021, the three municipalities received a total of 30 percent more applications for a building permit than previously anticipated. The municipality of Maasgouw is the leader with no less than 35 percent, Echt-Susteren and Roerdalen follow with an increase of 33 and 20 percent. On an annual basis, this involves dozens of additional permits, with an average of 35 to 50 hours required to process each permit.
As a short-term solution, many applicants for building permits are currently being told that the process may take up to six weeks longer. Municipalities will actively request citizens to submit new permits at a later date. They also want to see whether 'simple' requests, for example for a driveway or roof, can be processed more quickly. It is not yet known whether the explosion in building permits will result in the three municipalities having to provide financial assistance. An advantage is that the additional building applications also mean that many more administrative costs are collected.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 6, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")