Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Resistance nuisance Kennedy Bridge
The Limburger
October 23, 2018 Tuesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 1
Length: 431 words
Byline: BY PASCALE THEWISSEN
Body


MAASTRICHT
Residents of Alfons Ariënsstraat in Heugemerveld are protesting.
They are sick of the endless stream of cars on the Kennedysingel, with the associated noise, odor and harmful exhaust fumes.
Free public transport to the city center; better flow of motorized traffic on the busy arterial roads to and from the center; enforcement of the speed limit of 50 kilometers per hour and a health survey among the residents of the Alfons Ariënsstraat, parallel to the John F. Kennedysingel.
 Livability
Residents of the Heugemerveld make these and other proposals to improve the quality of life in the neighborhood and especially in the streets adjacent to the Kennedy Bridge. Under the leadership of Esmeralda van Benthem, who lives 36 meters as the crow flies from the Kennedysingel, an action committee is being set up that, among other things, wants to advocate the construction of a high noise barrier.
The reason is the Maastricht Environmental Noise Action Plan. If it is up to the municipality, the previous environmental noise action plan, which ran from 2013 to 2018, will be extended unchanged until 2023.
The reason is that due to the many infrastructural interventions in the city, such as the tunneling of the A2 and the relocation of the Noorderbrug, there is no current picture of the current noise situation. The work has not yet been completed. In addition, the new Environmental Act will come into effect in 2021, which means that noise regulations will have to be completely revised. "I understand that new traffic counts need to take place," says Van Benthem. "But what I do not understand is that the postponement may lead to a delay in the necessary approach to the serious traffic nuisance on the Kennedysingel."
 Signatures
She visited local residents with a letter to that effect. "In no time I had collected 106 signatures." She also received letters from people complaining about health problems as a result of noise and odor pollution and harmful emissions. Complaints include sleep deprivation and lung problems. Thea van Geleen, who has joined the action committee, suspects that many more health complaints from local residents are due to the traffic congestion. She is supported by chairman Paul Rutten of Klaor Loch - now Milieudefensie Maastricht - who supports the action in Heugemerveld.
According to him, the prediction that traffic congestion would decrease after the construction of the Willem-Alexander tunnel did not come true. On the contrary: it has only become busier on the Kennedy Bridge.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 23, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")