Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Opposition to homes in orchard castle
The Limburger
December 1, 2022 Thursday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: THE THOORS; Page 5
Length: 417 words
Byline: Hans Straus
Body


More than 120 residents of Maasniel are against the building plans of owner Hans Maessen of De Thooren Castle. He wants to build two houses in the orchard of the castle.
The residents of the Heuvel district - which borders the orchard - are particularly strongly opposed to the plans. They have expressed their objections to the municipality of Roermond in a letter supported by 120 local residents. 'The composition of this striking monument is being destroyed by the construction of two modern houses. The appearance of the neighborhood is changing dramatically," they write.
In addition to the cultural-historical aspect - the 14th century castle and the orchard have been connected for centuries - residents point out unsafe situations due to construction traffic and a lack of parking spaces when construction takes place.
Relaxed
But these considerations are of secondary importance to resident Marleen Clerx of the Heuvel district. "I think the whole of Maasniel is against this, 'de bongerd' is an area where residents relax. Where they enjoy the view. Why sacrifice an 800 year old area for profit? A wall fifty meters long and three meters high will be built along the path. Then the view to the park and castle disappears."
Owner Maessen says that the construction of the two homes is necessary to pay for the renovation of De Thooren. "Ukrainian refugees are now temporarily living in the castle. No subsidies are available for the renovation because it remains a home. The two planned homes are needed to realize this project." Maessen says he has consulted with the municipality and a team of architects to arrive at an 'extensive spatial substantiation'. Maessen also says he is concerned with safety and possible parking problems. account. "The residents of the new homes can park on their own property. Social safety has actually increased due to the open character limiting it to two single-storey homes, the historic character will not be affected."
Protected status
Fons Zijlstra of the Ruimte Stichting Ruimte, the monument watchdog in Roermond, says that the castle as such enjoys the protected status of a monument, but the orchard does not. "Only when the new Environmental Act comes into force, which is now scheduled for July next year, will monuments and their surroundings be protected."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 30, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")