Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Four questions about the Maas and Waal economic agenda
The Gelderlander
November 20, 2017 Monday


Copyright 2017 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 16, 17
Length: 441 words
Byline: PETER DEURLOO
Highlight: The entrepreneurs in Maas en Waal talk to administrators of the municipalities of Wijchen, West Maas and Waal en Druten about a regional economic agenda.
Body


Employers' association Ondernemend Maas en Waal (OMW) has drawn up this economic agenda to clarify the priorities for the region. "The councilors have responded positively to our invitation," says board member André van den Hurk of the employers' association.

1What is an economic agenda?

The economic agenda is a vision of the future of the Meuse and Walloon economy in the years 2018-2022. It is no coincidence that this is the period from the upcoming council elections to the subsequent elections. The aim is to achieve a 'more promising and economically strong Land van Maas en Waal'.

2Which items should be on the agenda?

OMW has formulated thirteen agenda items. She wants, among other things, better cooperation between Regional Tourism Office KAN and Rivierenland, education tailored to companies, agreements with the three municipalities on retail and coordination on student transport. According to the entrepreneurs, the Land van Maas en Waal should also be promoted (profiling).

They also want to talk to the municipalities about the Environmental Act 2019/2020, an important law for the spatial planning of the living and working environment. And about the APV. This General Local Regulation also affects matters such as advertising and peddling permits, events and rules for shopping areas, for example. These could be made more flexible according to the OMW (for example a fashion store that wants to sell a glass of wine).

The OMW staff also want to discuss procurement policy, experiments in the context of the Crisis and Recovery Act, and the province's Steengoed Utilten development program (repurposing vacant real estate).

The entrepreneurs also argue for more cooperation and coordination in the economic field between the Nijmegen region and the Rivierenland region and for the establishment of a single point of contact for all (starting) entrepreneurs in Maas and Waal.

3What happens next?

The OMW will be talking to the 'economic councilors' Sander Bos (West Maas en Waal), André Springveld (Druten) and Titus Burgers (Wijchen) in mid-January 2018. The entrepreneurs then want to try to convince the councilors of the need to develop a joint economic vision.

4 And those elections?

In the run-up to the municipal elections, OMW is also holding a debate with political parties from the municipalities of Druten and West Maas en Waal. This will take place on March 5, 2018 and will only deal with economic topics. The debate is intended for entrepreneurs and not for a general audience.

Paul Brouwer, director of Rabobank Maas en Waal, will lead the evening.
The councilors responded positively to our invitation

View the original page: page 16, page 17

Load Date: November 19, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")