Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Five hundred' objections to solar park near Kekerdom
The Gelderlander
January 26, 2024 Friday


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 445 words
Byline: LEO KLAASSEN
Body


A coordinated action against the arrival of a mega solar park between Millingen, Kekerdom and Leuth is generating massive formal objections to that plan. According to action group Sustainable Energy Berg en Dal, at least five hundred people have responded within a few days.

The action group has been opposing the construction of a solar park of - initially - 100 hectares in the rural area between the villages for years. The plan would needlessly render much agricultural land unusable for decades. The village of Millingen would also no longer be able to grow in times of housing shortage.

The municipality of Berg en Dal has now made a draft zoning plan and two draft environmental permits available for inspection. That is reason for the action group to call on people to object en masse.

That makes sense, says chairman Jan Wassink. "It is not only about the quality of the objection, but the number of objectors is also important. The city council has said that the entire plan will not go ahead if there is no support. We can demonstrate this with many objections."

The action group also hopes to influence the vote in the Berg en Dal municipal council with a flood of responses. Wassink calculates that he now has the support of ten (Lokaal!, CDA, VVD) of the 25 municipal council members. He hopes to still be able to change the voting balance in favor of the opponents.

If Berg en Dal policy makes the arrival of the solar park, and perhaps later also planned expansions, finally possible, then the opponents will go to court in any case, says Wassink. According to him, and with him also the council faction of Lokaal!, the mayor and aldermen are unnecessarily hasty with the granting of permits. Due to insufficient capacity on the power grid, the 169,200 solar panels will not be able to supply power until 2028 at the earliest, and possibly later.

By then, the world may look very different again, the action group says. Then there may already be many more panels on roofs, as Environment Minister Rob Jettten would like to see, and smaller solar parks in the municipality will suffice. "We can set this up locally with Dutch money," says Wassink. "Now Norwegian and German investors are running away with the profits."

According to the mayor and aldermen, it was necessary to make the documents available for inspection before January 1. As a result, they still fall under the old Spatial Planning Act. The Environmental Act came into effect on January 1, meaning the municipality would have to deal with completely different rules and procedures.

Leo Klaassen
The city council has said that the plan will not go ahead if there is no support

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: January 25, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")