Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Five years after the fire, there is a plan for the site of Maaskant Reizen in Lith: 24 new homes
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 7, 2023 Thursday 08:18 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 458 words
Byline: Peter van Erp
Body


LITH - Next month it will be five years since Maaskant Reizen in Lith was largely reduced to ashes. Now there is finally a construction plan for this empty site in the middle of the village that the municipality would like to participate in.
Maaskant Reizen itself moved to the business park a long time ago. The location on Meester van Coothstraat is ideally suited for residential construction. All parties agreed on this. Daverveld Development and Reuvers Development & Construction are working on the project. The result is a plan with 23 affordable apartments and a detached house.
The apartments are spread over two blocks. One will soon be on the road, the other at the back of the site. Developer Erik Daverveld says that the idea for the complex on Meester van Coothstraat was based on that of a director's villa and that the complex behind it would be more industrial in character. As a reminder of the old company function.
Contours of old warehouse
A lot of work has been done on that idea since then. But the principles are still recognizable in the first sketches that the municipality has added to the zoning plan. “The complex that is a little further away from the street now has more or less the contours of an old warehouse.”
In consultation with the municipality, six cheap rental or owner-occupied homes will be included in the plan. Daverveld: “These are small apartments that are ideally suited for starters.” In addition, seventeen apartments will be available below the limit for the National Mortgage Guarantee (435,000 euros in 2024). Daverveld indicates that some will fall below that limit. “We aim for a wide variety of living areas and associated price levels.”
It will be a house with a roof, but the entire residential program will be on the ground floor
View over the polder
The developer does not exclusively target seniors, but does emphasize that the apartments are ideally suited for this target group. There will be a lift in the largest residential block and the apartments are spacious and barrier-free. Most apartments in that complex will soon look out over the polder. Cars are parked between the two residential complexes.
Finally, a detached house is drawn on the side of the construction site. It is also tailored to seniors and other people who no longer want or cannot climb stairs. “It will be a house with a roof, but the entire residential program is on the ground floor,” Daverveld explains.
The Municipal Executive in Oss approved the draft zoning plan for this building plan in Lith this week. To avoid the consequences of the new Environmental Act, this plan will be made available for inspection this year.

Load Date: December 7, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")