Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Boekel comes up with an alternative to the disappearing flash permit
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 23, 2023 Thursday 03:05 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 353 words
Byline: Kees Backx
Body


BOEKEL - The municipality of Boekel was the 'inventor' of the flash permit. People who applied for a building permit through an architect received it immediately. That permit will disappear on January 1, but Boekel thinks he can handle it again very quickly.
In 2003 Boekel abolished the aesthetics committee. An almost revolutionary decision in the country. Then-mayor Driek van de Vondervoort once told the Brabants Dagblad: "It happened that the aesthetics committee rejected a building plan five times. I thought that should be different, so we abolished that welfare. Moreover, I thought it was nonsense that our civil servants were simply repeating the work of recognized architects.”
From that moment on, Boekel had the so-called 'flash permit': people who applied for a building permit through a recognized architect received it immediately. Within twenty minutes. The objection period for local residents continued to exist, because of course a construction plan did not have to conflict with the zoning plan.
This way of working was popular throughout the country and was from then on called a 'counter permit'. As a result, the procedure for building houses was significantly shortened.
Hire an independent agency
That counter permit has now had its day: on January 1, the Environmental Act and the Construction Quality Assurance Act will come into effect and it will be over. "With the latter law, the municipality is no longer responsible for the architectural test. An initiator must now have this carried out by an independent agency," says councilor Ben Brands.
“The municipality then checks all permit applications against the environmental plan. We not only look at whether something fits into a zoning plan, but also at health aspects, for example. By law, this must be completed within fourteen weeks.”
Boekel now again thinks that things can be done faster. “We aim for a decision within four weeks. That will cost a lot of money, but we think it should be possible," says Brands. Because it only concerns small construction plans. The large projects must go through an extensive procedure.

Load Date: November 23, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")