Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Viola (44) becomes ill from wood smoke; Will Eindhoven politicians help her with a smoking ban?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 27, 2024 Tuesday 09:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 818 words
Byline: Mark Wijdeven
Body


EINDHOVEN - Ever since the neighbors of Viola van Alphen (44) heated their house with a pellet stove, the Eindhoven resident has been gasping for breath. Her asthma is so bad that even her GP raised the alarm with the municipality. “The smoke makes me sick.”
Viola van Alphen stands trembling in the deep garden behind her house in the Bennekel district. She points to the chimneys that have been placed on the flat roof of the neighbors' extension.
From the moment the heating is turned on in the house in the autumn, smoke puffs out of the chimneys of the automatically fired pellet stove at the neighbors. And that continues until the spring.
At the end of 2022, the neighbors opted for pellets. The start of a lot of misery for Viola van Alphen, she says. “When the heater was turned on, I became ill. And I'm getting sicker. Because of the smoke.”
Pulmonary rehabilitation in Switzerland
Her asthma has never been so bad. She also has a fireplace herself. And it was still on until a few years ago. At Christmas, for fun.
But now the Eindhoven native shows how she had a wood smoke filter system made in her house and how she covered the cracks in her bedroom window. And she explains that she is forced to flee indoors when the weather is nice but cold and the wood stove at the neighbors is nice and warm. “I bought this house specifically for the garden. You can sit out of the wind and in the sun. There was some sun yesterday. I wanted to take a look at the flowers and remove weeds. I always feel very happy there. But that didn't work because of the smoke.”
She also tells how, on doctor's advice, she spent two summer months in a Swiss hospital last year for pulmonary rehabilitation. And because of the side effects of the asthma spray she uses, she urgently underwent heart surgery in December, according to the cry for help that the general practice sent to the municipality in January.
Backfire
“Her severe asthma symptoms are triggered by exposure to smoke,” the letter states. 'Her situation is unstable and worrying. It is very important that measures are taken to minimize exposure to smoke. We request that you look into options to improve the climate in her immediate living environment to protect her against these stimuli that seriously threaten her health.'
The municipality of Eindhoven could do nothing for her, so far. In fact, the situation only became worse after the municipality intervened.
Viola van Alphen asked the municipality to act. But the municipality could not do much about the wood burning. “Nuisance is a subjective concept,” she was told.
During the first inspections in the spring of 2023, officials noted that no permit had been applied for for the flue gas discharge. The neighbors subsequently did not apply for the required permit. No, they lowered the chimney pipe so no permit was needed. Even more smoke is now blowing towards Viola van Alphen's garden, kitchen and bedroom.
The neighbor with the pellet stove is concerned about the situation. “I know she is sick, but it is not because of our stove,” she responds. “There are many more wood stoves in the area. I really do take that into account. But nothing is good. I don't know what to do with it. She only needs to get rid of our stove. That is not possible. If it is really no longer allowed, I will be the first to stop.”
Eindhoven politicians are considering a ban
A smoking ban? It is indeed no longer unthinkable. Because Viola van Alphen's problem has further stirred Eindhoven politics. It is one of the reasons that wood burning is on the agenda of the municipal council on Tuesday, says Jonas Roothans of the Party for the Animals (PvdD).
Together with coalition parties GroenLinks and D66, he organized an evening with experts, including from the GGD and TNO. The Party for the Animals in Eindhoven is considering a wood burning ban in one form or another. Roothans says that the introduction this year of the Environmental Act gives municipalities more instruments to regulate wood burning. So far, Eindhoven has mainly looked at the cabinet. Roothans: “This is the time to speed things up.”
He points to a recent report from TNO about air quality in the region. TNO recommends further research into the possibilities of reducing particulate matter emissions due to wood burning in the winter months. The researchers cite encouraging efficient heating sources and better information through the heating guide as an example.
Cities such as Utrecht and Amersfoort are already experimenting with heating bans, but not very successfully. In Amersfoort, the wood stove is only allowed to be turned on if the weather and air quality permit. But enforcement was not possible. Not once was there a performance. And the example of Utrecht does not go far enough for the Party for the Animals in Eindhoven. The city banned outdoor wood burning. Roothans: “That only affects scouting and has little impact.”

Load Date: April 29, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")