Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Viruses hit harder in Brabant due to the poor air quality: is it getting better now?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 14, 2024 Sunday 10:20 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 761 words
Byline: Tom Vos
Body


DEN BOSCH - Can we still breathe enough air safely? New research into the deadly consequences of poor air quality is forcing the province of North Brabant to face the facts. What are they doing to improve it? And does it help yet?
In 2020, the first reports emerged about poor air quality. Municipalities, national and provincial authorities and the GGD did not just conclude a Clean Air Agreement. The goal is 50 percent healthier air by 2030, compared to the reference year 2016. The RIVM recently established that the coronavirus hit harder in areas with a lot of air pollution. In East Brabant and Limburg, the number of infections in April 2020 was ten times higher than elsewhere.
But what percentage of that 50 percent air improvement has already been achieved? There is no one who can really answer this question. Neither does a spokesperson for the GGD. "The health gain has only been calculated for the period between 2016 and 2030 based on forecasts. And therefore not what the profit is in the current year so far.”
In any case, the RIVM takes stock every two years. The last report dates from 2022. Based on, among other things, current and proposed government policy, the RIVM expects to achieve at least 47 percent 'health gain' (read: healthier air) in 2030. But immediately a nuance from the GGD spokesperson: "The policy must then be implemented. That is why continued attention and urgency are needed.”
In short, there is work to be done, that is clear. First of all: no, a spokeswoman for the province of North Brabant is not surprised that the air quality is still not optimal. "In 2022, the GGDs clearly established that air pollution in Brabant also leads to concrete health damage."
The respiratory tract of residents has a harder time than elsewhere, mainly due to the emission of harmful substances from intensive livestock farming, traffic and industry.
What is being done about it?
The results also confirm to the provincial spokesperson the urgency to continue working hard to improve air quality. But how? “We promote the construction of innovative housing systems that reduce and limit the emission of harmful substances. We are committed to cleaner bus transport and we use the cleanest possible mobile equipment in the construction and maintenance of our provincial roads,” she lists a number of examples of what the province is doing.
 In addition, North Brabant tries to grant companies permits that impose the strictest possible requirements in the field of clean air.
But the province cannot do it alone, the entire society is needed to get the air cleaner. One of the instruments that a municipality has had since January is the Environmental Act. This merges old laws and, when issuing a permit, gives the municipality more resources to determine what can be seen, heard and smelled outside as part of a plan.
The Brabant GGDs are also not sitting idle. They have been showing for a number of years how air quality affects Brabant's health. In Southeast Brabant, for example, the GGD has a Regional Monitoring Network in which nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter are monitored in real time in fifty measuring cabinets.
And what can people do to contribute to cleaner air? "Measures at the source that reduce emissions, such as less wood burning and more electric transport, are preferable," said a spokeswoman for the GGD.
Not satisfied
Jeanne van Eert was almost certainly the first politician to express the suspicion in 2020 that the coronavirus hit harder in East Brabant than elsewhere due to poor air quality. "I'm not satisfied that I was right. But it is significant and worrying that it is now confirmed.”
Van Eert, municipal councilor for Community Interest Venhorst-Boekel, fully supports the call from the GGD health service that air quality really needs to be significantly improved. "Unfortunately, this is a long-term issue. Governments are working on it, but when it comes down to it, rules are often stretched to facilitate industry and companies.”
What has Van Eert done to improve air quality in recent years? “We have tightened standards for better air quality in hamlets with many intensive livestock farms and extended the strict rules to the entire municipality.”
But the government cannot do it alone, according to the Boekel councilor. “People also have a responsibility to help.”

Load Date: April 14, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")