Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Voerendaal does not accept 'decapitation' of oak
The Limburger
August 26, 2020 Wednesday
HeerlenKL


Copyright 2020 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: PROTECTED; Page 5
Length: 378 words
Byline: Stefan Gillissen
Body


A big boy. That's what you could call the oak on Onze Lieve Vrouweplein in Voerendaal. But according to experts who conducted research after the crown was sawn out, the tree only has about five years left to live. The municipality has included the oak in the so-called tree list that is used to protect special specimens. "It is a thick oak that is quite decisive in the street scene," says councilor Pierre Verbraak (PvdA, Landscape and Environment). "The tree has a high ecological value. Many insects, birds and other animals find shelter there."
The municipality of Voerendaal works with 'passports' for trees that are protected. The Environmental Act, which is expected to be introduced by the cabinet in 2021, has made this necessary. The government wants fewer permits to be required for citizens. And if a permit is necessary, it can be obtained more quickly. Rules are formulated more generally. That can be bad news for a tree. The saw can go in faster. A passport ensures that a tree is protected and its condition is recorded. It is possible to maintain changes. And that will happen at Onze Lieve Vrouweplein. The council requires the landowner to maintain the protected oak and plant a new tree. He must also have an arborist or inspector conduct a comprehensive visual survey of that tree every three years to record its vitality and condition and identify any safety issues. Penalty payments must compel cooperation. Interesting detail: the owner is said to have asked the municipality in the past about possibilities with the oak and was told that nothing could be done with it.
According to the owner, the act was done in good faith. “We had an expert prune the tree when it became apparent that maintenance was necessary. There were dead branches that could cause danger. Our expert denies that the tree only has five years left. You can also see it: the tree has already grown considerably." He is considering starting an objection procedure against the council's decision to enforce. "We certainly do not agree with the municipality's reading and are considering hiring a lawyer."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: August 25, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")