Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Boekel will make plans available for inspection before the Environmental Act is introduced
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 21, 2023 Thursday 01:14 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 314 words
Byline: Kees Backx
Body


BOEKEL - The Environmental Act that will come into effect on January 1 is breathing down the neck of the municipality of Boekel. Before that happens, the municipality wants to make some zoning plans available for inspection. Then the old rules still apply to those plans.
In concrete terms, this concerns two so-called preparatory zoning plans: one for the first phase of the De Biezen housing project in Venhorst, where there is room for a maximum of 45 homes, and for phase 2 of the Schutboom plan in Boekel, where a total of 150 houses will be built. The two plans are available for inspection until January 31.
According to the council, both plans have been extensively discussed with local residents and other stakeholders. Plan De Biezen is located on the north side of the village. The first phase offers space for a maximum of 45 homes, and in phase 2 there is room for approximately twenty more homes. Of the 45 homes in phase 1, about 20 percent will consist of social rental properties.
Giving up the riding arena pony club and leaving the chicken farm
The pony club will have to make way for the plan. The first phase concerns only part of the association's grounds. He is prepared to give up one of the three driving arenas for the time being. The club has indicated that it can manage with two riding arenas for the time being. The municipality must move the fencing, gates and paving.
The Schutboom phase 2 plan in Boekel is located on the west side of Boekel, roughly between the Schutboom road and the ring road. There is a chicken farm in the area at Heivelden 2. The owners want to close the business and sell the land to the municipality. Because the municipality wants this transaction to take place at a closed market, the owners are allowed to build three room-by-room homes on their property. The council points out that the environmental permit will be revoked due to the disappearance of the chicken company. This in turn has a positive effect on the local living environment, according to B and W.

Load Date: December 22, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")