Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Construction watchdog has to give up in times of crisis
The Gelderlander
October 16, 2015 Friday


Copyright 2015 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 8
Length: 288 words
Byline: BY HARRY VAN DER PLOEG
Body


From 2016, the city council of Arnhem wants to cut 655,000 euros annually from the budget of the Arnhem Regional Environmental Agency ODRA, the watchdog for permits for building, the environment and fireworks. Arnhem wants the service to downsize.
The environmental department has been struggling with serious shortages for some time because income from building permit fees has fallen sharply. This is a direct result of the collapsed market for new homes during the economic crisis, the mayor and aldermen say in a letter to the municipal council.
The ODRA wants to absorb the majority of the setback by saving on personnel costs. The disposal of temporary workers in the flexible workforce should yield 475,000 euros. At the same time, the ODRA wants to divest two tasks: the inspection of sustainable construction and the campaign for the Safe Living police quality mark. That should yield 160,000 euros. The early retirement of some employees yields 20,000 euros.
The ODRA is a joint inspection service of the municipalities of Arnhem, Doesburg, Duiven, Lingewaard, Overbetuwe, Renkum, Rheden, Rijnwaarden, Rozendaal, Westervoort, Zevenaar and the province. The organization cost more than 13.2 million euros in public money in 2016, according to ODRA's budget.
Arnhem paid the most to the ODRA with 5.5 million euros in 2016. This is followed by the Province of Gelderland with more than 2.6 million euros and the municipality of Lingewaard with more than 2.4 million. The ODRA may shrink further when the Environmental Act comes into force in 2018. This new law should put an end to the current mess of rules surrounding construction and the environment.
The organization carries out inspections in the region with 131 FTE employees. In addition, people are 'hired'.

Load Date: October 16, 2015, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")