Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Why Druten doesn't have time
The Gelderlander
March 27, 2023 Monday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 708 words
Byline: FRANK WOOD APPLES
Highlight: The whole of the Netherlands is crying out for new houses, but in Druten you don't have to come up with new plans for a year. Nitrogen? No. Too busy.
Body


Officials do not handle new projects for a year
Frank Houtappels

Druten

It was a striking message, in times of housing shortage: the municipality of Druten will not handle any new construction projects for a year. So be patient, for those who were planning to build a house in Druten, or for example in Horssen, Afferden, Deest or Puiflijk. Why? There are more construction plans underway in Druten than the officials can process. Moreover, there are already more houses planned than are needed according to agreements.
What's the current situation with the housing shortage?
There are simply more people in the Netherlands looking for a house or apartment than there are for sale or for rent. That is why 900,000 houses must be added in the Netherlands over the next seven years. That is not just a number, that is the goal of Housing Minister Hugo de Jonge. But things are not going well for the time being: construction plans are encountering nitrogen regulations. Construction costs and raw material prices are rising. Mortgage rates are rising. So the pressure is high.
Why does Druten no longer deal with new plans?
There is already more than enough construction going on. And civil servants don't have time for it. Sounds strange, against the background of housing shortage. And it also leads to misunderstanding. "A complete insult to the residents, sad," was one of the comments under the news item last week.

Yet, in short, it is how the municipality itself expresses it in pieces. She has made agreements in the Housing Deal with other municipalities in the region. Developers and construction companies devise and build homes, but the municipality must first study and approve those plans.

The Housing Deal contains agreements about the number of houses that must be added in each municipality until 2030. In Druten there are 910. But sometimes a plan does not go ahead or is delayed. To avoid such setbacks, there must be more plans in place than are necessary to achieve that number: 130 percent of what is actually needed. Druten complies with this, with plans for 1,100 homes.

Accept more construction plans? We're not going to do that, says the municipality. That is not only 'not necessary', but also 'undesirable'. There is a risk that you are building for vacancies, is the argument. Moreover, the idea is that by putting things on hold for a while, civil servants will have time to get rid of a pile of work. Ensuring that construction can actually take place.
How many civil servants are we actually talking about?
Thirteen. They create spatial policy and zoning procedures, and are also busy with an important legislative change that is coming: the Environmental Act. They also advise residents, entrepreneurs and politicians.
Why don't civil servants have time? Doesn't Druten work together with Wijchen to share the growing amount of work?
Beats. In recent years, The Hague has transferred more and more tasks to municipalities. To do all that work, municipalities work together. Druten and Wijchen have founded the Druten Wijchen Work Organization (WDW) for this purpose. That is certainly not an end of business, in fact investments are being made in it. The collaborating civil servants are faced with excessive workload, high absenteeism and inefficiency.

The civil servants work for both Druten and Wijchen. But this collaboration has not taken any work off anyone's hands, says a spokesperson. "The stop would probably not have happened earlier if there were no joint official organization."
What does that say?
This situation is not strange, says a spokesperson for the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG). She points to the 3 million euros that the province of Gelderland has available for municipalities this year. This allows them to hire extra people to accelerate housing construction. "There appears to be a shortage of municipal staff on all fronts."

There has been a shortage of spatial planning officials for years, she says. "During the credit crisis, hardly any houses were built (one of the causes of the major housing shortages). Municipalities had to fire their civil servants. A lot of RO specialists and planners ended up at home who went to consultancy firms after the crisis and did not return as municipal officials."
There appears to be a shortage of municipal personnel on all fronts

View the original page: page 1

Graphic

 
This house in a new neighborhood in Druten is almost ready. photo Koen Verheijden

Load Date: March 26, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")