Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wageningen: more solar parks
The Gelderlander
February 25, 2019 Monday
Valley Edition


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 15
Length: 434 words
Byline: ERIC WIJNACKER
Highlight: To achieve its climate ambitions, Wageningen may need five more solar parks such as the one that will soon be constructed along the Haarweg. The province has mapped out where this could be done: this appears to be mainly the west side of Wageningen, in Het Binnenveld or in the Nude.
Body


After 5.5 hectares on Haarweg, another 27.5 hectares are needed in the west of the city
Councilor Peter de Haan knows that this is quite a task: "In theory, we could also make agreements with other municipalities in the Food Valley that they make our obligations possible on their territory. But that is not a realistic scenario. We will have to make room somewhere ourselves.”

"It is very popular to say that Wageningen should place those solar panels on the roofs of houses, municipal buildings and companies. But we definitely won't make it with that. Many parties are already doing their best, but here the fact that Wageningen has a relatively large number of flats is also taking its toll. You can install more panels in neighborhoods with low-rise buildings."

The solar park that land owner WUR and developer LC Energy want to build on the Haarweg is formally 7 hectares in size, but there are actually solar panels on 5.5 hectares. Wageningen must install a total of 33 hectares of solar panels on land. This means that another five times as many hectares of solar parks will have to be added.
Wageningen-Hoog
De Haan: “An old plan to build a solar park on the old landfill at the Keijenbergseweg on Wageningen-Hoog is now being re-examined. Previous plans to install solar panels on the Nude Park have been canceled, but it was considered to do so above the panda parking lot, which was considered a few years ago. But that parking lot is no longer available.”

Wageningen had actually wanted to include the solar park discussion in the zoning plan for rural areas that has been awaited for some time. De Haan: “But now that the new Environmental Act will come into effect in 2021, that vision of our rural area has been delayed because we have to take that new law into account. That is why we want to know now how the municipal council views new initiatives for solar parks. Where is this allowed and possible and under what conditions? If we are not clear about this, we will not be able to meet our climate obligations. We want to be energy neutral by 2030.”

Apart from the 33 hectares of solar parks on land, Wageningen must also fill another 3 hectares with solar panels on or above water or above parking lots. Panels above the city canal perhaps or near a new pond in the floodplain? Or above parking lots? Councilor Peter de Haan is not yet venturing into reflections: "As far as I know, there are no concrete plans for this yet. But we do have to think about it in concrete terms.”
This is reflected in the fact that Wageningen has a relatively large number of flats

View the original page: page 15

Load Date: February 24, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")