Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Bond: 'Protect farms from land consolidation'
The Gelderlander
February 12, 2020 Wednesday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4
Length: 288 words
Byline: PETER DEURLOO
Highlight: A number of land consolidation farms from the last century may not be demolished. They deserve protection. This is what the Heritage Organization Bond Heemschut advocates.
Body


Bond Heemschut will tell you this tonight during 'the evening of the countryside' of the municipality of West Maas en Waal, from 7.30 pm in the town hall in Beneden-Leeuwen.

That evening is in preparation for the new environmental law, which will apply from January 1, 2021. For this new law, the municipal council must determine what the municipality should look like in the future. What is allowed, what is not? What do we do with the farms and other businesses, but also with the water, nature, the landscape and cultural history? The first thing we talk about is the countryside. Everyone has a say.

The Heemschut Association believes that the land consolidation farms should become part of the vision. In the land of Maas and Waal, 96 new farms were built in the previously desolate settlement area in the 1950s. The land consolidation of that time included the relocation of farms from the villages to the newly developed central area.

The land consolidation was unique at that time because of the size and construction of many new farms. Architects from the region supplied the designs and farmers could choose from a number of standard types, creating a certain diversity.

The Gelders Genootschap already inventoried the farms in 2014. Further research should select monument-worthy farms, says Jan Reijnen, who is present this evening on behalf of Bond Heemschut. He wants to prevent the farms, which are no longer suitable for agriculture, from being demolished.

Tonight, six speakers will give a talk about nature, farms, cultural history, sustainability and energy transition, health and water. Register: westmaasenwaal.nl/buitengebied.

View the original page: page 4

Load Date: February 11, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")