Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Water storage with hooks and eyes
The Gelderlander
February 27, 2020 Thursday


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 3
Length: 457 words
Byline: PETER DEURLOO
Highlight: One moment your basement is flooded and the sewer overflows due to a downpour. And then suddenly there is no drop for weeks: you are not allowed to water your garden and even farmers have to be economical with water.
Body


The changing climate has the Netherlands, and therefore also West Maas and Waal, under its control. Downpours and extreme drought plague farmers and citizens. On the one hand, water storage is necessary because of downpours. How do you retain the water? On the other hand, the question is: where do you get water today during the long extreme drought periods?

Residents of West Maas and Waal recently discussed it during the Evening of the Countryside in the town hall. Their ideas? The sand extraction ponds serve as water retention basins for dry periods. Widening ditches and waterways to accommodate more water. Equip those wide waterways with quays to store even more water.

But can these suggestions also become reality? Rivierenland Water Board is thinking in other directions. Storing water in old sand extraction ponds is not a simple matter, according to employee Björn Prudon. The water level in these lakes moves with the river levels.

If you wanted to turn them into real water storage facilities, you would have to make them 'waterproof' with a clay layer so that the level remains the same. And will residents be happy with even more deposits in these lakes? That will be a difficult matter given the bad experience with dumping soil that turned out not to be clean, or outright waste, in the Maas and Waalse lakes.

The water board does create wider waterways by making less steep banks. But only where necessary. If water rises undesirably at a bottleneck, the water board will widen the waterway at that location. Widening all ditches and waterways for more water storage is extremely expensive. "We opt for customization," says Prudon. The construction of quays also requires enormous investments.

However, according to the water board, it is necessary to collect and store water within the dike for later use during dry periods. And then we are talking about large basins that need to be filled. It is important for the municipality not to construct buildings or plan other things at locations where water storage is possible that would make the construction of a retention basin impossible. The municipality must already indicate these types of locations in the 'environmental vision' that is mandatory according to the Environmental Act. The municipality is seeking input from its citizens for this law, which will come into effect on January 1, 2021.

Looking at West Maas and Waal alone is insufficient in any case. It is a problem that requires a solution in a larger region. Also because all the water within the dike ultimately ends up in the West Maas and Waal. Nijmegen is meters higher than Dreumel, the area runs from high in the east to low in the west. This means that the municipality will have to cooperate with its eastern neighbors.
We opt for customization

View the original page: page 3

Graphic

 
Pumping station in the wetering near Alphen.

Load Date: February 26, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")