Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=What is planned in 2024 in Boxtel? In any case, the Olympic Games with major input from Boxtel
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 2, 2024 Tuesday 05:39 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 907 words
Byline: Jos van de Ven
Body


BOXTEL - From the Olympic Games with a major contribution from Boxtel to definitive plans for unsafe railway crossings. It's all going to happen in the next twelve months, if all goes well...
To also look back: what could Boxtel expect in 2023 and what came of it? The expected clarity about the rail plans and therefore the approach to the roads around them did not materialize. In fact, the municipality will be happy if a bullet does pass through the church in 2024. It is already crystal clear that the double level crossing, where motorists were scared when they ended up on the tracks in 2023, will remain open this year.
Barriers closed permanently
How does that happen? About 20 million euros still need to be found to implement the traffic plans. Because that is the agreement between the municipality, province and central government. And in addition, the Council of State is faced with a huge backlog of appeals, which means that the connecting road to be constructed from Ladonk to Kapelweg is still highly uncertain. This new road is a requirement and will first have to be in place before the barriers on Tongersestraat are permanently down.
Migrant workers
Another file that Boxtel thought he could complete in 2023: the housing of up to 400 migrant workers on a plot on the Oude Rijksweg in Liempde. The former chicken farm that must be demolished for the arrival of employees from Eastern Europe is located in the immediate vicinity of the Vrilkhoven hamlet.
The hundred residents of this small community do not like these plans at all: unsafe traffic, deterioration of the living environment and exploitation of migrant workers. Going to court is therefore inevitable in the coming months. And regardless of the ruling, it will be difficult enough to complete the new construction this year.
Hockey capital
To look forward to: the Olympic Games in Paris in July and August! The men's hockey team won the European title six months ago and with it a ticket for the largest sporting event in the world. National coach Jeroen Delmee from Boxtel has a coaching staff that consists almost entirely of former MEP players. This means that Boxtel could easily become the hockey capital of the Netherlands in the summer. Because just like in football, the orange team is one of the favorites in every title tournament. With the comment that hockey players know how to fulfill that role more than football players.
ODC and RKSV Boxtel
To stay in sports for a moment: the football clubs RKSV Boxtel and ODC are cautiously discussing a possible merger. Careful because emotions naturally play a role in a small community with two clubs. Of course, both football clubs know that in the long(er) term it will become increasingly difficult to keep two clubs going. Not only because the growth of members is at a standstill, but also because the accommodations can only be kept afloat with a lot of money (including from the municipality). A merger may not happen in 2024, but don't be surprised if the decision is made.
Build, build, build
The credo build, build, build is of course not exclusive to Boxtel. Just before New Year's Eve, this municipality also squeezed a lot of construction plans through the official mill, because otherwise many plans would have to be redone on January 1 due to the new environmental law. So, again depending on objections from the court, homes can be built in Liempde, Esch and Lennisheuvel.
Temporary housing
What is taking a long time in housing construction are temporary homes and tiny houses. The twelve temporary homes on the Pastoor van Besouwplein in the shadow of the Hoogheemflats are still not there. Woonstichting Joost is still busy making plans. Because even though there are shorter procedures (in time) for placing these types of homes, according to the foundation, care must still be taken.
Enthusiasm
The municipality also shows this care at the locations for tiny houses. Nearby residents have already been able to participate in discussions at the Boxtelseweg in Liempde and at the Kleine Aarde in Boxtel. The enthusiasm was not exactly great. And there are obstacles in the way, especially for the location at Kleine Aarde. The biggest? A gas pipe that has been overlooked. In any case, a decision will be made this year.
Young people
Choices that are also followed with suspicion by young people throughout the municipality. Youth work needs to be overhauled and the most important question is whether the B-Town youth center will continue to exist. It is already clear that the center in Ursula on Baroniestraat is not satisfactory. A quartermaster has been appointed for 60,000 euros and he will have to see what young people want and which locations are best suited to this. Towards the neighborhoods, is the motto. The city council must make decisions about this in the second half of this year.
The Braken
Let's go back to 2023. Sports clubs were in danger of getting into trouble because the De Braken sports hall would no longer be available as of July 1. At the last minute, the municipality managed to extend the contract with the owner for two years. With the agreement that there should be more clarity this year. For after 2025. So we will know that in twelve months, if all goes well...

Load Date: January 2, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")