Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Unruly and complex file
The Limburger
April 21, 2017 Friday
Maastricht, Heuvelland, Maastricht-Heuvelland


Copyright 2017 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 8
Length: 1209 words
Byline: BY JAN HENSELS
Body


<B>LIVESTOCK FARM SERIES</B>
Intensive livestock farming sometimes also acts as a divisive factor in the Limburg countryside. In Nederweert the benefits and burdens of this clearly come to light. Part 4: the difficult road to tackling the nuisance caused by livestock farming. The province wants to bridge the contradictions and think more in terms of solutions.
They even come from outside the province to see how we do things here," says the new councilor Rick van Meel (CDA) of the municipality of Nederweert proudly.
He is referring to the 'Outside Area in Balance' approach, which, according to the director, attracts the necessary attention from other municipalities.
The rural municipality of Nederweert has distinguished itself in this way for about four years in an attempt to manage the sometimes tense relations in the countryside as a result of intensive livestock farming.
In many places in the Limburg countryside, livestock farmers and local residents have a difficult marriage.
Local residents sometimes go to court, several times a year in Nederweert alone. And farmers sometimes become frustrated because of local residents who, in their view, hinder their entrepreneurship.
<B> Possibilities </B>
Setting up testing grounds and promoting consultation and dialogue about livestock farming are important parts of 'Outside Area in Balance.' These testing grounds, for example, provide livestock farms that want to implement additional measures against nuisance, but who encounter legislation and regulations, with broader options.
The dialogue between concerned rural residents, farmers, agricultural interest groups and the municipality plays a leading role in the Nederweerter approach 'Outside Area in Balance.' If individual farmers want to build a new stable, the municipality of Nederweert insists on consultation with the nearest neighbors. This is currently still done on a voluntary basis.
Sometimes this consultation leads to satisfactory solutions for both farmers and local residents. Sometimes it is rather counterproductive. "If you are invited an evening before the consultation period expires and are then told that you should not make a fuss because otherwise there will not even be any plantings, then that is not a dialogue," local resident Peter Kivits expresses his dissatisfaction.
Nederweert wants to make consultation with applications for new stables mandatory from 2019. According to the municipality, the new Environmental Act offers this possibility.
Furthermore, Nederweert recently employed an official who should improve contact between farms and local residents.
Peter Nossin of the Nederweert Leefbaar foundation now has reservations about the usefulness of the dialogue that the municipality conducts with local residents and farmers. “I took part in it myself. The views that are sketched are beautiful and the atmosphere is good.
But my question is always: what are we going to do next Monday?"
Nossin believes that all the talk in Nederweert has not yielded enough tangible progress. He would like to acknowledge that work is being done to reduce odor nuisance. "But I prefer to look at the actual nuisance, both in the countryside and in the centres.
In some places you really don't have to hang the laundry outside."
<B>Headache file</B>
He also sees insufficient results when it comes to reducing particulate matter that comes from, among other things, poultry - and to a lesser extent from pig farms. Ton Geraedts from Nederweert Leefbaar is also critical. “It has led to more opportunities for agricultural companies. If the outcome of the dialogue is determined in advance, then there is propaganda or citizen brainwash."
The municipality recently reported that the number of livestock farms where the European particulate matter standard was exceeded fell from eighteen to thirteen last year. That doesn't convince Nossin. The opposition parties JAN and PvdA in Nederweert also believe that the rural areas in their municipality are certainly not yet in balance.
Former councilor Hans Houtman, who was in charge of the headache file for a few years, knows that reducing particulate matter is a tough, complex matter. He now sits for the VVD in the municipal council.
He sees the decline as a typical example of 'One swallow does not make a spring'.
During his time as an alderman, Houtman saw that particulate matter that disappeared at one farm due to environmental measures could just as easily be added at another location. He could actually enforce little.
Houtman, among other things, addressed the agricultural advisors who advise farmers on expansion plans about their responsibility. "They don't always have to aim for profit maximization. Sometimes expansion with a lower number of animals may also be an option."
The municipality of Nederweert acknowledges that the results in reducing particulate matter are not yet as hoped.
The municipality says it is mainly hindered by Dutch and European legislation and regulations.
The legal position of livestock farmers who want to expand is quite strong in practice, as administrators who, for example, want to do something about particulate matter emissions, notice.
Nederweert notices that even at companies where the particulate matter standard is exceeded, the municipality cannot enforce environmental measures. We hope for the willingness of the farmer.
If the entrepreneur does not take action himself, Nederweert makes an urgent appeal.
In the meantime, the call for action from concerned rural residents in the Peel region is only growing louder. Especially now that reports such as that from the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) link health and livestock farming.
Professor Dick Heederik, who contributed to the RIVM report, sees that there is slowly but surely more awareness of the problem, including among the national government. People like Heederik also point out that the contribution of intensive livestock farming to air pollution extends far beyond the immediate area. "That share will only increase now that pollution from traffic continues to decrease."
<B>More sustainable</B>
According to the Sustainable Livestock Farming Committee of the Social-Economic Council (SER), more direction from the government and the business community, customization and money are needed to make livestock farming more sustainable. "The economic position of a large group of livestock farming companies is extremely worrying and the risks of livestock farming for public health, the environment and animal welfare are no longer socially accepted. Government and business must urgently - and jointly - take matters into their own hands. Parties must be judged on results and no longer on good intentions," said Ed Nijpels, chairman of the SER committee.
The province has indicated that it wants to examine what is possible in the short and longer term to improve the quality of life and air quality in the livestock-dense Peel region (see box). The province wants to take the interests of both residents and farmers into account.
Comment? jan.hensels@delimburger.nl
<B> Government and the business community must urgently - and jointly - take matters into their own hands. Parties must be judged on results and no longer on good intentions. Ed Nijpels</B>
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 21, 2017, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")