Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Be less rigid with destination
The Gelderlander
March 24, 2012 Saturday


Copyright 2012 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: RL
Length: 671 words
Body


Will there be a horse breeding farm in Ingen? The Buren municipal council has doubts. The decision will be made on Tuesday. VVD Member of Parliament Houwers would know.
HORSE BREEDING VVD Member of Parliament Houwers believes that municipalities should be less of a 'nuisance force'

 Suppose you want to start a breeding farm and a riding school with the Schwarzwälder Fuchs horse breed. You then find a beautiful location in the rural area of ​​Ingen, so you get to work energetically to realize this dream. This will not happen without a hitch, because a lot has to be arranged. Also with the municipality. And that certainly turns out not to be easy.
 Because to establish such a company, the zoning plan must be amended, permits must be applied for and you must be able to comply with all kinds of regulations. If we distance ourselves from these procedures that are so self-evident to municipal officials, the question arises: do all these plans, rules and permits serve the purpose for which they were designed? In my opinion not, the Netherlands is not doing enough to give people the space to organize their living and working environments as they want.
 The VVD believes that municipalities should make developments possible. Unfortunately, too many municipalities position themselves as a nuisance force. When initiatives come from society, in my opinion it is the task of the municipality to think along with the citizen, while not losing sight of the interests of other citizens.
 The municipality must play the role of 'market master' in order to give different players fair space. In the House of Representatives we are working on this principle on the new Environmental Act, which will simplify regulations and shorten procedures.
 As a national government, we have also given municipalities more freedom in their spatial planning policy to respond to local circumstances. In practice, it appears that many municipalities do not yet make sufficient use of these options.
 Take the zoning plan. This provides legal certainty for citizens, but the downside is undesirable restrictions on the freedom of action of citizens and companies. Because in practice, municipalities often assign very specific purposes to land or buildings. I know of an example of a 'horse breeding farm' designation at a location where a subsequent owner could not establish a riding school without having to go through the time-consuming and uncertain process of a zoning plan revision. Short-term changes are thus made impossible. Municipalities are therefore mainly risk-averse. They do not want to run the risk of something being built or demolished somewhere that they might later consider undesirable. However, they go too far in their fear of cold feet. Especially in times of shrinkage, you have to make private and small-scale initiatives possible. Especially because citizens and companies have less financial scope to engage in lengthy and expensive procedures.
 I therefore advocate the use of flexible destinations. It means that municipalities designate an area or building so broadly, with a global function, that flexible use becomes possible. Municipalities can also assign multiple functions to a building or land or opt for a broader function. For example, by choosing one function 'agricultural company' instead of one function 'horse breeding and/or riding school'. Because is there a big difference in use and consequences for the environment between a riding school, a horse breeding farm and an agricultural company? Flexible destinations lead to more freedom to use your own building or land as you wish. In addition, zoning plans become outdated less quickly and fewer deviation procedures are required and it becomes easier to test building plans. I started this opinion piece with the great initiative of horse owner Marja de Bruijn, but there are countless examples where flexible zoning plans can offer a solution.

 Johan Houwers is a VVD Member of the House of Representatives and spokesperson for spatial planning.

Graphic

 
Can Marja de Bruijn start her horse breeding in the countryside of Ingen? --PHOTO SOURCE--photo Erik van 't Hullenaar

Load Date: March 26, 2012, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")