Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Designed as a bump against high-rise buildings'
The Gelderlander
April 12, 2022 Tuesday


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2, 3
Length: 581 words
Byline: HARRY VAN DER PLOEG
Highlight: Residents of De Grote Enk, the former headquarters of AkzoNobel in Arnhem, believe that the municipality is not taking them seriously in discussions about the future of the neighborhood. They are angry about an email from an official who dismisses them as 'a bump in the road'.
Body


Residents of De Grote Enk demand more say "about the new Zijdekwartier district in Arnhem
Harry van der Ploeg

Arnhem

Gerrit Woerts of the De Grote Enk Working Group says that he has participated for years in the 'participation process' surrounding the future Zijdekwartier neighborhood. Until 2018, small-scale construction with 'land-based homes' was still the starting point. A maximum of 175 homes spread over 5 hectares was envisaged. Along the track it had to remain at 4 to 6 layers. A maximum height of 10 meters was also mentioned.

Then the city council made a U-turn. Arnhem must build because there is a housing shortage, that is the idea now. High-rise buildings are necessary. The Preliminary Draft Urban Plan mentions a 60-meter high residential tower and other 'height accents that fit in with the environment'. The residents fear shadows and traffic nuisance. "Because we are no longer just talking about cute low-rise buildings, but about high blocks," sighs Ine Veen of the working group. The arrival of 600 homes in the area also creates a difficult puzzle in combination with the adjacent companies and the ENKA Campus of ROC Rijn IJssel.

The residents got the strong impression that they were allowed to express their opinions, but that nothing was done with them. Growing suspicion made them decide to request all documents surrounding the consultation between the municipality and developers via the Public Access Act. With astonishing results, in their eyes. In an email from December last year, an official praised the participation process with the residents. At the same time, the official writes that he still sees a bear on the road. Quote: 'Then the hurdle remains the rebellion of a number of residents from De Grote Enk.'
Honorary title
Woerts responds: "It is almost an honorary title that we are seen as rebels. But it also shows how sad the state of participation is." Veen agrees: "They see us as troublemakers instead of interested, concerned and involved citizens."

The municipality calls the comment about the residents as an obstacle unfortunate. Project leader Ursula van Wandelen regrets the loss of trust. "I understand their concerns about their living environment." The combination of high and low is sensitive, the mayor and aldermen acknowledge. This results in a 'significant difference in scale that requires attention in the elaboration', according to a letter to the municipal council.

The developers KlokGroep and BPD have now convened another neighborhood meeting, with the aim of getting local residents to 'think along' about the new district. 'We would like to hear what you think, so that we can strengthen the plan', it says. Environmental manager Floortje van Sambeek extends a hand to restore trust. “We would like to talk to all residents of De Grote Enk. There will be a separate meeting for that."

Van Wandelen and Van Sambeek state that the influence of the residents on the plan is purely advisory. Legally, this must be regulated through the new Environmental Act, which has already been postponed five times by the cabinet. The municipalities already act 'in the spirit' of that law, but residents often complain that they are assigned a minimal role in this. "We are at the bottom of the participation ladder," says Veen. Woerts advises residents: "Demand all documents about the consultation between the municipality and developers via the Freedom of Information Act. Then you will know how things are going."

Watch the video on this topic at dg.nl/grote-enk

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Load Date: April 11, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")