Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Definitely a maximum on the number of deep fryers
The Limburger
February 12, 2024 Monday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: CITY CITY ROERMOND; Page 5
Length: 536 words
Body


According to those involved, Roermond would do well to regulate the number of catering establishments in the city center. But there is no possibility for this within the existing zoning plan. That has to change; also to preserve the monumental character of the center.
There are eleven snack formulas within the canal ring in Roermond. Chip shop owner John Ratelband raised this with the municipality regarding the recent granting of a permit for a chip shop at Grote Kerkstraat 27. “Do you know what they said to me at the municipality? "You're forgetting McDonald's..." So there are twelve. That is simply too much, but there is no way to do anything about it, because it is allowed within the existing zoning plan. Nowadays even cafes have a distribution point for fries. Why is that allowed?"
Objections
There have now been sixteen objections against the arrival of the new, luxurious chip shop in the Grote Kerkstraat, in a building where a fashion store used to be located. Local residents do not want the monumental character of the street next to Christopher's Cathedral to be further damaged and competitors believe that the supply is becoming too large.
Ratelband: "There used to be twenty catering establishments in the city center, now there are two hundred. Roermond has changed from a shopping city into a foodie city."
Former catering entrepreneur Wim Cox, also representative of Koninklijke Horeca Nederland, believes that the ten-year-old zoning plan for the city center needs to be revised. "You should have instruments with which you can control certain developments. Now I think that Niek Brouwers wants to offer a new formula in the Grote Kerkstraat that does not yet exist, but in general it is not good that too many buildings in the city center are being filled unbridled with catering. Regulation is difficult, but necessary. And it is already happening elsewhere. In Amsterdam, for example, they have restricted the number of Nutella shops. As far as I am concerned, there is indeed a maximum number of chip shops in the city center. As Royal Horeca, we have also advocated this. This also applies to the number of sushi shops or döner kebab shops."
environmental code
The municipality has announced that a revision of the zoning plan regarding catering establishments is not possible for the time being. “The Environmental Act came into effect on January 1, 2024. Before January 1, 2032, the spatial rules as they currently appear in the zoning plan 'Inner City of Roermond' must be included in the environmental plan of the municipality of Roermond. That is also the time when the existing rules can be substantively revised."
Until then, according to the municipality, no maximum has been set for the number of chip shops. “From a policy perspective, no maximum has been set. However, that does not mean that chip shops can be opened everywhere in the city center. The Inner City Roermond zoning plan contains three catering clusters, namely the areas around the Markt and Roerkade (including the Grote Kerkstraat), the Stationsplein and the Zwartbroekplein. Chip shops, among other things, are allowed to establish themselves there. In addition, a number of 'loose' existing chip shops spread throughout the city center are permitted under the zoning plan."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 11, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")