Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Welstand wants to intervene more quickly
The Limburger
October 31, 2018 Wednesday
Maastricht


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 1
Length: 404 words
Byline: BY PASCALE THEWISSEN
Body


MAASTRICHT
The aesthetics committee wants to be involved at an early stage in construction plans in the city. This is necessary to achieve the 'required high quality of the living environment'. B&W endorse that recommendation.
Sometimes it rubs and creaks.
When the interests of investors are at odds with those of a monumental city. “Investors are rattling bags of fresh money at the gates of the city to invest.
However, they are mainly interested in consumerism and tourism: hotels, restaurants, terraces and retail chains."
It is precisely in these sectors that the Maastricht Welfare and Monuments Committee has encountered dilemmas in recent years, as is apparent from the annual reports for 2016 and 2017, which will be discussed in the municipal council during an extra information round on November 27 with the recently reappointed chairman of the aesthetic committee, architect Menno. Homan.
 Monuments
The committee calls it surprising that investors are often willing to sacrifice much of the monumental quality of old buildings for optimal commercial exploitation.
While it is precisely the old city centers with their monuments that have a great appeal to the public. "It looks like slaughtering the goose that lays the golden eggs." As an example, the construction of a five-star hotel in a protected cityscape (corner of Boschstraat and Batterijstraat) and the arrival of the Loods 5 home furnishings store in the vacant monumental industrial buildings north of the Called the Sphinx Building.
Due to adjustments in the design, the aesthetic committee was ultimately able to support the hotel plan. This was different at Loods 5. The aesthetic committee found that there was insufficient balance between the industrial past and exploitation and serving the consumer, which was clearly given priority.
Many of these problems could be prevented by involving the aesthetics committee in the construction plans at an early stage.
 environmental code
As a result of the improving economy, plans have not only become more extensive and complex in recent years; since 2014, the number has also increased by 60 percent and that trend continues in 2018.
Partly in view of this complexity and the Environmental Act that will come into effect in 2021, according to the committee, not only good cooperation with the municipal business units is of great importance, but the population must also be more involved in spatial quality.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 31, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")