Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=We must use the Environmental Act to positively influence our health. - Environmental law can help health
The Gelderlander
March 23, 2013 Saturday
Maasland


Copyright 2013 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: 3_OPINION
Length: 787 words
Body


BOXMEER/CUIJK - Space and health have a lot to do with each other. We realize this more and more. The design of the space around us can promote or harm our health.
 Companies and highways in certain places can be harmful to air, water, noise and therefore to our health. While leaving room for nature and greenery actually promotes health. The question is: does the government have sufficient instruments to protect our health when designing this space?
 New current threats to health, partly caused by spatial decisions, show that this is not sufficiently the case. If we include health aspects earlier in spatial planning, this can positively influence health. A new Environmental Act is currently in the making. It attempts to reorder a large number of existing environmental laws and therefore offers new opportunities. I hope that the legislator will take this opportunity to incorporate new insights into this law.
 What are those current threats? The Q fever epidemic, which raged mainly in Brabant from 2007 to 2009, made us realize even more: people can get sick from animals. Thousands of people became ill because of the coxiella burnetti bacteria that goats transmitted to humans. Unfortunately, dozens of people died and hundreds still suffer the consequences every day.
 We expect to encounter these types of infectious diseases more often in the future. Our province (Brabant, ed.) is extra vulnerable because we house many animals in a small space, often close to homes. This realization is gaining ground in Brabant. Recently, the Provincial Council on livestock farming in De Ruwenberg concluded that health must take a more important place in decisions about our space. The Health Council's advice on health and livestock farming (November 2012) also calls for the naming of standards and distance criteria at local level (the so-called assessment framework). The GGD Netherlands had previously advocated no longer establishing livestock farms up to a certain distance from homes.
 But also consider health in relation to air pollution due to (highway) road traffic. The GGDs in Brabant already advocated the introduction of the national air quality and health guideline in 2009. This involves monitoring health when building so-called 'sensitive destinations', such as schools and daycare centers, in the vicinity of (highway) roads.
 In that letter we, as the GGD, advised: preferably not to build within 300 meters and certainly not within 100 meters of the (highway) road. On busy inner-city roads, not within 50 meters of the provincial road. Unfortunately, these are recommendations and not (yet) legal standards.
 We must use the new Environmental Act to give health a stronger position. That is not sufficiently the case now. Time and time again it appears that existing laws on spatial planning do not sufficiently take the risk to health into account. But the municipality has few legal options to prevent the construction of a stable or an extension due to a health threat, in particular an infectious disease outbreak. And while the same municipality is obliged under the Public Health Act (Wpg) to do everything, for example, to prevent and combat infectious diseases.
 It is remarkable that no connection has ever been made between this law and that on spatial planning.
 Explicitly mentioning health as a test in the design of space does not have to be an obstacle for spatial decisions. In fact, it also has advantages: Health is increasingly a topic among citizens. We noticed this in Brabant around the livestock farming discussion.
 Identifying and involving health in a timely manner can also deliver a lot of quality and well-being. In addition, reduce resistance to decisions. A health test can help with this. And so I advocate:
 Link the new Environmental Act with the Public Health Act.
 Explicitly mention a health test for spatial decisions.
 Indicate specific attention for the danger of infectious diseases as referred to in the Wpg.
 Enshrine the Health Council's advice in law and thus provide national support for the local health assessment.
 Because what is the alternative? Then municipalities still have too little legal power to change or refuse spatial plans in the interest of health. And surely no one could want that? That people knowingly become ill, because of spatial decisions, because there are no legal rules?
 Hugo Backx is director of the GGD Hart voor Brabant

Load Date: March 23, 2013, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")