Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Working on water never ends here'
The Gelderlander
January 23, 2021 Saturday
Valley Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4, 5
Length: 797 words
Byline: ALICE VAN EIJK
Highlight: For eight years she was the dike manager of the Vallei en Veluwe Water Board, Tanja Klip retired this month. She uses her expertise as a Member of the Senate for the VVD.
Body


tanja klip
The wellies are still in her car, but Tanja Klip-Martin (66) steps onto the dike at the high-water channel between Wapenveld and Veessen in suede shoes. “I should have known better,” she says, laughing. "Being a dike manager for the water board for eight years has cost me a lot of shoes."

The grass path along the IJsseldijk has turned into a large mud puddle after 24 hours of rain. But ruined shoes or not; this is the place she likes most. “The landscape here is beautiful. The Veluwe merges into the IJssel landscape, I find it almost enchanting."

The wind blows hard at the inlet of the channel area, but it is not the wind that occasionally takes Klip's breath away. "This part is our water board in miniature, because our largest nature reserve meets the IJssel, the most beautiful river in our country. Lovely because of its curves, it meanders. But at the same time it can also be very capricious. Always be careful with water. Because no matter how nice it is, water safety is not negotiable."
Birthdays
Tanja Klip has been the figurehead of the water board that watches over Vallei and Veluwe for almost eight years. The 66-year-old VVD politician has often had to explain at birthday parties what exactly she did as dike manager. "How many times have I been asked: is that a full-time job? It is significant, of course, that so many people ask that question," she notes. “A dike manager is the mayor of the water board,” I would say. The work is quite similar. Dijkgraven networks and maintains contacts with politicians, cabinet members, municipalities and knowledge institutions. We are also responsible for emergency care. But sometimes we literally have our boots in the mud.”

She adds with a wink: "Maybe a dike director just a little more often than a mayor."

Her interest in soil arose when she was a deputy in Drenthe. "The northern Dutch soil is extremely interesting, with its oil, gas, warm water bubbles and natural groundwater. But there is also an intertwining of tasks facing our society. This requires a combination of official and scientific knowledge and courageous administrators."
Blade of grass
As dike manager, Tanja Klip only became more aware of this entanglement. In order to innovate, she looks beyond borders with a broad view. "I'm not the second blade of grass on the left, the third marsh marigold on the right. As a director I prefer to look at the big picture. The water board has three core tasks: safety, sewage treatment, and sufficient and clean surface water. But these cannot be seen separately from climate change, the need for the energy and agricultural transition and a circular economy that result from it."

In the field of water, the Netherlands is reaching the end of feasibility, says Klip. In her view, structural changes are needed in the use of soil, subsoil and topsoil. “We have so much knowledge that until recently we thought we could build and renovate anywhere in the Netherlands. But the climate shows us that this is no longer possible. Increasing flooding, drought and extreme weather conditions force us to look differently at the organization of our country. This must be done through innovation, but also by crossing our provincial borders and the boundary between the public and private sector, thus denying boundaries. In other words: not everything can be done everywhere anymore.”

Klip gives an example. “Rain that falls on the Veluwe surfaces as seepage in Flevoland. There it is pumped away to the IJsselmeer, beautiful clean water. We do not go through Flevoland, so we have advised water company Vitens to create reservoirs there. A kind of Biesbosch in Flevoland."

The intention was that the VVD politician would enjoy a well-deserved retirement last summer, but the corona crisis meant that things turned out differently. Klip was asked to stay on as dike director until the new year. A successor has now been found in 50-year-old Marijn Ornstein. She will most likely start working in March.

Will Tanja Klip take it easier? A broad smile appears on her face. ,,That will not happen. At least, not yet. As a Member of the Senate, I have been given the water portfolio, but I can also interfere with the Environment Act and the new Nitrogen Act. This combination means that I can still fully use my substantive head and heart. Working on water in a delta never ends. We have been doing this in our country since the second half of the Middle Ages. You are always busy with water. We have to be careful with the water boards."
How many times have I been asked: is that a full-time job? Significant of course

View the original page: page 4, page 5

Graphic

 
Dike Count Tanja Klip at the inlet of the high-water channel at the IJssel in Veessen.

Load Date: January 22, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")