Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Boutique hotel in Lange Nieuwstraat is allowed, but with a maximum number of guests
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 28, 2024 Thursday 03:40 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 263 words
Byline: Cerberus Press Agency
Body


THE HAGUE/TILBURG - The municipality of Tilburg will still have to determine a maximum number of guests for the hotel in Villa Anna and Casa Cara on the Lange Nieuwstraat. Because otherwise there could be too much inconvenience for the neighbors if there were many more than two guests per hotel room.
The Council of State concluded this in a final ruling. This, by the way, cancels the entire zoning plan for the hotel. Because the municipality must not only repair the hotel plan, but also bring it into compliance with the new Environmental Act, which was introduced at the beginning of this year. In any case, the highest administrative court agrees with a few neighbors that the maximum of 16 hotel rooms does not guarantee that a maximum of 16 to 32 guests will stay in the hotel. Because more guests would cause considerable inconvenience to the neighborhood.
Hang out on the terrace
Especially when all those guests hang out on the terrace of the associated restaurant late on beautiful evenings. More than 32 guests will also lead to more traffic nuisance in the area. In addition, the zoning plan still included the option to build four Bed & Breakfast rooms in addition to the 16 rooms. Although the municipality of Tilburg previously acknowledged that this was not the intention, it was included in the plan.
In short, Tilburg has to go back to the drawing board and initiators Emil and Petra Voorhorst have to wait a while until a new hotel plan is ready. The Council has rejected all other objections from the neighbors and in principle a boutique hotel plus catering can be built on the Lange Nieuwstraat. Only with a maximum number of guests.

Load Date: March 28, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")