Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='We have to think ahead now'
The Gelderlander
January 5, 2019 Saturday
Valley Edition


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 4, 5
Length: 845 words
Byline: JELLE VEENSTRA
Highlight: Tanja Klip-Martin has been dike manager of the Vallei en Veluwe Water Board for more than five years, which will soon be energy neutral.
Body


In a few months, the Vallei en Veluwe Water Board will be the first in the country to operate in an energy-neutral manner. “As water boards, we are leading the way. And it has to be. The climate does not wait for us," says dike manager Tanja Klip-Martin of the water board.

If the Vallei en Veluwe Water Board does not keep the cap on the bottle, Amersfoort and the surrounding area will be flooded. The whole of the Netherlands will then come to a standstill if the Grebbedijk collapses during a flood of the Lower Rhine. "Then 250,000 people will be in the water, we will have 27 billion euros in damage and the entire country will be disrupted. The highways and tracks run from west to east through our area," says Klip. "We live here in a river delta and working on water never stops."

The water board was busy last year with the drought. “The Netherlands has done fantastic. Not a drop of water has come out of the tap," says Klip. "We pumped water from the IJssel into the polder near Hattem to prevent the peat meadow area from being irreparably damaged. We were able to evacuate fish that we had had great difficulty getting into the streams, such as the brook lamprey, to a large stream that we knew would not dry up. In this way we have saved populations of endangered fish species. We have imposed a ban on the abstraction of surface water. We were lucky that our systems were still full of water in May, because it rained incredibly hard then.

“We are constantly looking for improvements. The water level on the IJsselmeer will therefore fluctuate more. If we raise the level 10 centimeters, we will have an insane amount more water. We were prepared and will have to get used to it. Of course we go even further: what have we learned and what more can we do?

"A few years ago, the OECD, a United Nations institute that stands above the parties, conducted a study into water management in the Netherlands. We received an 8.5 and our Dutch way of water management should be the standard for the entire world.

"In 1950 there were still 2,650 water boards, now only 21. But despite the increase in scale, we are still at the heart of the area. People in our field staff know the farmers. Since we coincide with the State elections, we have had a turnout of more than 50 percent.

“For the water board, safety and strong and safe dikes are paramount. But water quantity and quality cannot be separated. If there is less water due to drought, its quality also deteriorates. Due to the new Environmental Act, municipalities and provinces are required to draw up an environmental vision, in other words a strategic spatial opportunities map. We do not have to do that, but as a water board we have chosen to create a 3D Blue Environmental Vision and we are unique in that: we can no longer look at our water management in two dimensions, but must do so in three dimensions. The surface water system and the groundwater system are inextricably linked.

"We are now going to focus enormously on energy neutrality, on reducing CO2 emissions, but also on the question of how to organize urban areas in such a way that they can cope with peak rainfall. That means more greenery and more water in the city and much fewer stones. And higher sidewalks again, so that water does not run into the houses. As a water board, we will soon be energy neutral, then we will produce much more energy than we need, as the first water board in the Netherlands. We make a lot of biogas with which we make green gas or generate electricity. You should actually use that biogas mainly in difficult situations, for example in old city districts. In Harderwijk we are now running a test with a bio-energy plant where we pump green gas into the natural gas network. You can also drive or sail heavy transport on it, because that is still difficult to do electrically. We are going to install seven hectares of solar panels on all our roofs. We will also focus on extracting thermal energy from waste and surface water.”
To repair
According to Klip, the biggest change in Dutch water management is thinking ahead instead of repairing afterwards. “We used to respond to a disaster. The Afsluitdijk is thanks to the tidal wave in 1916, when boats crashed through the houses in Spakenburg. I don't have to explain 1953, but the Betuwe was also evacuated in 1995 due to a near-flood. This resulted in the Room for the River plan, which literally created more space for the river water and therefore caused the river level to rise less quickly.

“The current Delta Program says: we have to think ahead. We look at dikes differently, we adapt to rising sea levels and sinking soil and we protect our fresh water. We all see that the ice shelves in Antarctica are melting faster than expected and ultimately also the snow masses. That will cause enormous sea level rise.

"That means that we should not look at 2050, but at 2150. That is hardly bearable.”

View the original page: page 4, page 5

Graphic

 
Dijkgraaf Tanja Klip-Martin: "The Netherlands has done fantastic."

Load Date: January 4, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")