Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wasp's Nest The five municipal factions in Valke...
The Limburger
March 6, 2021 Saturday
Maastricht


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: ALLBONNEUR; Page 8
Length: 530 words
Byline: Jeroen Geerts, Joos Philippens And René Willems,
Body


Wasp nest
The five municipal factions in Valkenburg have each installed a bee hotel, as a contribution to diversity in nature. One of those cabinets is on the Goudsberg, another opposite 't Vöske in Berg en Terblijt. And one in Dersaborg Park, near the town hall. After all the wrangling in local politics, troublemaker Walther Odekerken has already come up with a suitable name for it: 't Nieuwe Wespennest. (RW)
Advertising (1)
Defying citizen complaints, clientelism, opportunism versus 'insensitivity'; 'consistent policy' versus emergency aid. This cocktail of visions and emotions divides the Maastricht city council. Reason: the bill for advertising tax arrived at the city center entrepreneurs at the end of last week. Phone calls to politicians, commotion, calls for remission. Watershed of feelings: remission or deferment of payment? The early fathers couldn't figure it out. Voting was divided within two parties, their spokespersons René Betsch (PVV) and Nicky Beckers (VVD) were in good shape.
Advertising (2)
That is so far, but the accusations became quite personal at times. For example, Simona Maassen thought: "Crocodile tears are being cried here about the suffering of the entrepreneurs." Solo councilor Maassen, a kind of one-issue entrepreneurial party, called that 'very disappointing'. Well, it also says something about the person who gets his way. doesn't get.
The fact is that every council member is happy to help entrepreneurs, the question is at what price (in the financially impoverished municipality). A Wilderian atmosphere is currently being created on Facebook: parties that are against remission of this tax must be punished in March 2022. At the start of the election campaign, mud is immediately slung. Not everyone realizes that Maastricht is dragging itself through the mud. (JP)
From Eijsden to...
IKL wants to turn the Maas into one long, blooming blossom ribbon. From Maastricht to Mook. From where to Mook, councilor Maria Janssen from Eijsden wonders: does the Maas no longer start in Eijsden?
"The maker of the well-known carnival song had better topographical knowledge," she concludes. Because he - Bert Salden - indeed had Limburg start in the south at Eijsden and end in the north at the Mookerhei. (RW)
Unrecognizable
Mayor Harry Leunessen of Vaals led the joint meeting of the three Lijn 50 municipalities at the beginning of this week about the new Environmental Act. He was briefly afraid that councilors from Gulpen-Wittem and Eijsden-Margraten might not recognize him. "But just be patient," he told them. "I now have an appointment with the hairdresser." (RW)
Slip of the tongue
What the heart is full of... they sometimes say. Gerard IJff's mouth was running this week from his old place of employment. The Meerssen councilor mistakenly referred to 'Roermond' several times when he meant Meerssen. A good sign, we think. At least he didn't leave his old community with a bad feeling. Or did he accidentally get ahead of himself? We recently learned that Meerssen prefers to tackle reorganization issues in as broad a context as possible. (JG)
PDF file of this document

Load Date: March 5, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")