Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Westrand will soon be more livable, more beautiful, safer and greener
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 21, 2023 Thursday 06:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 356 words
Byline: Inge Jacobs
Body


ROOSENDAAL - More beautiful, more livable, safer, greener. This is what the Westrand district of Roosendaal should soon become.
Together, Roosendaal, housing association Alwel and project developers BVR and Four-D want to give the Westrand, one of Roosendaal's stomach ache neighborhoods, a makeover. The four promised on Wednesday to join forces to make the district future-proof. They sign a cooperation agreement.
Care close to home
This means that project developers look beyond just building homes. For example, consider care close to home. "We are not only building apartments, but we will also see whether, for example, when redeveloping the BDO building, we can create a health center where the GP can visit," says Ad van den Berg of Four-D. "And we think of meeting places to combat some of the loneliness.”
It is actually a very beautiful neighborhood, but residents are really tired of the sad aspect of the neighborhood
To get started quickly, the municipality has already worked on an environmental vision. This includes improving the quality of life, sustainability, greenery and safety. This means that steps can be taken quickly after the introduction of the Environmental Act on January 1. "All the themes that you deal with as a developer, municipality or housing association come together in this area vision for the Westrand," says project developer Patrick van de Watering of the municipality of Roosendaal. "Now we can take it further."
Millions from The Hague
The concrete plans for the district will be submitted to the council in the spring of 2024. And it happened very quickly, says councilor Klaar Koenraad. A nice boost is the millions that Roosendaal has received from The Hague from the National Liveability and Safety Program. “With that money we can quickly make a lot of progress.”
There is also a need for this, the municipality noticed after talking to residents, entrepreneurs and organizations in the Westrand. Koenraad: “It is actually a very beautiful neighborhood, but residents are really tired of the sad aspects of the neighborhood.”

Load Date: December 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")