Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Law as a thousand things cloth
The Limburger
February 16, 2022 Wednesday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: THE OPINION; Page 61
Length: 624 words
Byline: Ralph Diederen
Body


On February 1, a message arrived that no longer surprised anyone: the introduction of the Environmental Act will be postponed for the fourth time. 'We' as governments are not yet ready for this and there remain uncertainties about the digital environment in which all citizens and companies should be able to access to - in theory - receive an answer about permit applications with just a few pushes of a button. Of course, it is wise to postpone the introduction of this law as long as there is uncertainty about its implementation. But now that a new cabinet has taken office and we have been looking forward to the Environmental Act for more than ten years, another decision may be much wiser: pull the plug on the Environmental Act.
Expectations
The Environmental Act is seen as the largest legislative operation since the constitutional amendment of 1848. And expectations are sky-high. The Environmental Act must become a 'jack of all trades' that solves all problems that arise with permit or zoning plan procedures. The procedures are becoming shorter, participation is being improved, the rules are becoming simpler, all wishes are coming together in one integrated vision of the physical environment and citizens can quickly and easily find all the information they need digitally!
At the same time, the picture in the field seems to be a lot less positive: some things will probably improve, but it doesn't seem to be getting any easier.
Ruleland
It is too easy to ignore the fact that we all live in 'the Netherlands with rules'. It is deeply anchored in our political culture to want to avoid all risks, to record everything properly in procedures, to require numerous investigations before we make a decision and to always create multiple objection and appeal options for those who do not agree. is with a decision. This urge to regulate has not gone away with the introduction of the Environmental Act. in fact, the Environmental Act and the associated decisions remain large volumes full of rules that are unreadable for laymen.
Delay
Paradoxically, the Environmental Act even causes delays in procedures in the short term. Due to the large number of construction and permit applications, the workload at municipalities is currently enormous and the processing times for procedures are far too long. At the same time, many civil servants and consultancy firms are mainly busy implementing the Environmental Act. If that work is cancelled, there will be room for the urgent work again: processing the growing pile of building applications more quickly.
The question we have to ask is whether all the time and effort has been for nothing. I do not think so. The goals behind the Environmental Act (in short: accelerating and simplifying procedures) have only become more relevant over the past ten years. And of course 'digital tools' that improve cooperation between governments are useful, and it would be good if certain legal procedures and deadlines were shortened.
Official craftsmanship
But the real difference is made by the new view on official expertise: short lines of communication between government and initiator, good consultation at the start of a procedure, one point of contact for a file, thinking along and not wanting to cover every risk. And this certainly does not require a complete overhaul of existing legislation and regulations. Perhaps now is the right time to pull the plug on the Environmental Act in a controlled manner, retaining the benefits but saving everyone a lot of misery.
Ralph Diederen is alderman for Finance,
Living and Sports in the municipality of Beek
Paradoxically, the Environmental Act even causes delays in procedures in the short term.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 15, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")