Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Anyone who wants to top up must be able to share in the profits
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 13, 2024 Tuesday 08:52 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 529 words
Byline: Arun Swami Persaud, Jos Konickx and Michiel Houdijk
Body


Building homes on top of an existing building is a good way to combat housing shortages. Tenants should also benefit from increases in value, say Arun Swami Persaud, Jos Konickx and Michiel Houdijk.
There is a huge shortage of affordable housing in the Netherlands. Topping up, adding one or more floors of homes to an existing building, is therefore receiving a lot of attention. When topping up, no new building land needs to be prepared for construction, existing infrastructure is used and the quality of life in the city's neighborhoods improves. Topping up increases the value of the existing real estate (the underlying building). This is a profit for the property owner. We advocate that the tenants (residents and retailers) of the building should also share in these profits.
Threat Professional real estate parties view tenants as a threat. We see it differently. By adding houses to buildings, the entire neighborhood improves. A new, modern real estate object is created. Each owner, but also each tenant, earns a 'share' that corresponds to a fair valuation of his contribution and risks to realize the new project. The new Environmental Act tests the participation of tenants and the neighborhood.
In keeping with the spirit of the times, this should be done clearly and clearly in an op-top project. Tenants sense whether they are being taken seriously. An optop project requires a serious participation process in which tenants and the neighborhood are offered a place at the design table. In short: in optop projects, the tenants, by renting and living there, contribute to reducing the initial financial risk and increasing the property value.
Livability Naturally, it concerns the capital of the owners. However, they must realize that in addition to stable rental income, the quality of life and attractiveness of the neighborhood must improve. And the tenants take care of that. We are talking about shared interests for residents and retailers.
These can be made concrete in various ways. By having an open discussion about the benefits of topping. By thinking about creative solutions that really have meaning and value. Rent the extra living space created by topping up to young adults still living at home or smartly exchange the ground floor home to a young family with children.
Energy costs
Other benefits of topping can be seen in making the original building more sustainable, lower energy costs and giving priority to mobility solutions. The tenants have a direct interest in sprucing up the building in which they have lived for years. Ultimately, topping contributes to the social and economic renewal of cities because the facilities benefit from it and more life is created in the neighborhood. Sharing interests when topping up creates more living space and a nicer, more livable city in which to live, work and recreate.
Arun Swami Persaud and Jos Konickx are involved in various optop initiatives on behalf of Bouwwerf Almere. Michiel Houdijk is environment manager at RUA.

Load Date: April 24, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")