Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wijchen is putting dozens of construction plans in motion
The Gelderlander
December 15, 2023 Friday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 410 words
Byline: MENNO POLS
Highlight: Construction cranes will determine the skyline in many places in Wijchen in the coming years. The municipality has initiated 39 zoning plans.
Body


Before the arrival of the new Environmental Act
Menno Pols

Wijchen

Together, the plans amount to 1,600 new homes. These will rise in the coming years in the various villages in the municipality.

The spurt in construction plans has several causes. There is a major housing shortage and in the Green Metropolitan Region (the Arnhem-Nijmegen region) it has been agreed how many houses should be added in each municipality. Wijchen must build three thousand homes.

In addition, the new Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, 2024. Then the entire procedure for making construction plans and applying for permits will be different. "That creates uncertainty," says Geert Gerrits, housing councilor. "That is why many initiators (construction companies, project developers, MP) want to settle the matter now. If the draft zoning plan is available for inspection before January 1, the plan may still be the old rules are being built."

Construction plans are in preparation for almost all villages in the municipality. The largest plan is Wijchen-West, with 1,300 homes, spread over the new Groene Geest and De Vormers districts. Other plans in the village of Wijchen include the Kraanvogelterrein (64 houses) and Veenhof (building with 54 apartments for elderly people with dementia). In Bergharen, 23 houses will be built under the name Kerkenweide and twenty in the CPO (collective private commissioning) project Steenuil. In Balgoij there is a CPO project for 37 homes and in Niftrik 25 houses will be built on Lagestraat and five at the Dorpsstraat-Gildestraat intersection.

"There are also a series of smaller private plans," says Gerrits. For example, two houses will be built on the Oosterweg, on the site of Hout Centrum Wijchen, which has moved to the Wijchen Oost business park.

There is a lot of opposition to the Veenhof plan in the neighborhood. "We think the planned building is too large, it comes at the expense of greenery and we fear problems in the areas of traffic and parking," explains Léon Bronkhorst, who says he speaks on behalf of the neighborhood. "If the plan remains as it is , we will resist all the way to the Council of State."

Gerrits does not think that too much is being built. "We sacrifice as little green space as possible," says the councilor. "If it is possible, we choose to give new use to places that have already been built on. The Kraanvogelterrein is now an industrial estate and in the Veenhof built on the site of a former school."

View the original page: page 1

Graphic

 
Construction of the Steenuil district in Bergharen has now started. photo Eveline of each

Load Date: December 14, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")