Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wijchen is putting dozens of construction plans on track before the end of the year
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 15, 2023 Friday 06:02 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 452 words
Byline: Menno Pols
Body


Construction cranes will determine the skyline in Wijchen in many places in the coming years. The municipality has initiated 39 zoning plans in recent months.
Together, the plans amount to 1,600 new homes. These will rise in the coming years in the various villages in the municipality.
The spurt in construction plans has several causes. There is a major housing shortage and in the Green Metropolitan Region (the Arnhem-Nijmegen region) it has been agreed how many houses should be added in each municipality. Wijchen must build three thousand homes.
We try to give new meaning to places that have already been built up
In addition, the new Environmental Act will come into effect on January 1, 2024. Then the entire procedure for making construction plans and applying for permits will be different. “That brings uncertainty,” says Geert Gerrits, housing councilor. "That is why many initiators (construction companies, project developers, MP) want to settle the matter now. If the draft zoning plan is available for inspection before January 1, the plan may still be built under the old rules.”
The largest plan is Wijchen-West
Construction plans are in preparation for almost all villages in the municipality. The largest plan is Wijchen-West, with 1,300 homes, spread over the new Groene Geest and De Vormers districts. Other plans in the village of Wijchen include the Kraanvogelterrein (64 houses) and Veenhof (building with 54 apartments for elderly people with dementia). In Bergharen, 23 houses will be built under the name Kerkenweide and twenty in the CPO (collective private commissioning) project Steenuil. In Balgoij there is a CPO project for 37 homes and in Niftrik 25 houses will be built on Lagestraat and five at the Dorpsstraat-Gildestraat intersection.
“There are also a series of smaller private plans,” says Gerrits. A striking plan is on the Oosterweg. Two houses will be built on the site of Hout Centrum Wijchen, which has moved to the Wijchen Oost business park.
Resistance in the area
Not all plans can count on enthusiasm in the area. For example, there is a lot of resistance in the neighborhood against the Veenhof plan. "We think the planned building is too large, it comes at the expense of greenery and we fear problems in the field of traffic and parking," explains Léon Bronkhorst, who says he speaks on behalf of the neighborhood. “If the plan remains as it is, we will oppose it all the way to the Council of State.”
Gerrits does not think that too much is being built. “We sacrifice as little green space as possible. If possible, we choose to give new meaning to places that have already been built on. The Kraanvogelterrein is now an industrial estate and construction is taking place in the Veenhof on the site of a former school.”

Load Date: December 15, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")