Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Go to court to prevent the arrival of nuisance perpetrators
The Limburger
November 11, 2023 Saturday
Sittard-Geleen


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: SKAEVE HUSE; Page 7
Length: 490 words
Body


The installation of tiny houses for the Skaeve Huse residential project on the outskirts of Maastricht started this week. To prevent persistent problem tenants from moving in in January, there will be summary proceedings.
The tiny houses are located on the former grounds of the SCM football club on the Toustruwe. The intention is that eight persistent, addicted or otherwise, nuisance perpetrators, people who are given a last chance here, will move into these homes in January.
Initially, 81 households objected to the Skaeve Huse residential project developed in Denmark. The vast majority of the objections were declared inadmissible. More than twenty local residents challenged this during a hearing in August. B and W decided to stand their ground based on official advice.
Partly on behalf of other concerned local residents, two parties are appealing to the administrative court against the issued environmental permit. Entrepreneur Jeroen Vandooren is responsible for the procedure of his immediate neighbor Jonk, while local resident Nic Pepels wants to challenge the way in which B and W proceeded in the administrative court.
Vandooren has also initiated summary proceedings to prevent people who are very difficult to place from moving into the tiny houses before the administrative judge has spoken: "That is unacceptable to us."
Nic Pepels calls the course of events a farce: "The mayor immediately said at the first residents' meeting that they would place that skaeve huse here, there was nothing that could be done about it. However, the neighborhood was allowed to participate in a sounding board group. If this becomes normal, then it will stop for me. This is completely contrary to the spirit of the new Environmental Act. Furthermore, remember that many local residents have not even received the first letter from the municipality."
Servatius, which will rent out the tiny houses, does not legally have to wait for a ruling from the administrative judge: a permit has been issued. The fenced area on the edge of Malberg is being further developed. The parties involved think that this is the right 'low-stimulus' environment for the target group.
After the hearing, the objectors were proven right on one essential point: the municipality had not sufficiently indicated how the interests of the neighborhood in terms of safety would be safeguarded. The municipality states that additional regulations have been introduced for safety, care and coordination with the environment.
 "As a municipality, together with Servatius, healthcare parties and the police, we have been talking to local residents in a sounding board group since 2021 to involve them in the project," says a spokeswoman. "We offer people to come and have a look and organize consultation hours in November to answer questions and listen to their concerns."
Partly on behalf of other concerned local residents, two parties are appealing to the administrative court against the issued environmental permit.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: November 10, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")