Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Neighborhood councils: Nijmegen is not listening
The Gelderlander
December 27, 2021 Monday
Nijmegen Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 404 words
Highlight: How well does the municipality of Nijmegen listen to residents in major projects, such as the new station area or new construction in the Weezenhof? Bad, fear more than twenty neighborhood councils. They are disappointed, they write in a letter to their supporters.
Body


Associations disappointed in participation, they write in letter to supporters
Frank Houtappels

Nijmegen

Resident participation is a sensitive topic in Nijmegen politics. Out of dissatisfaction with the way in which the municipality listens to citizens, various neighborhood councils and associations united last year in the Joint Working Group on Citizen Participation Nijmegen. But trust has not improved since then, according to a letter sent out by the working group this week.

The way in which Nijmegen deals with resident participation is 'deficient and often failing', it says. The district councils even wonder whether further discussions with the municipality are still useful.
'Quite a fierce letter'
"It is quite a fierce letter, but that is also allowed," says Hans Sprangers of the Waterkwartier District Council, who signed the letter and sent it to its own supporters, as well as representatives of about twenty other associations. "Then you're quickly talking about two thousand people."

The latest disappointment stems from the way in which Nijmegen prepares for the Environmental Act. This is a new law that will come into effect in July 2022 and regulates citizen participation in major projects. On a Nijmegen scale, this concerns, for example, the renewal of the station area or buildings on the city island, but also Butter Factory Batava or new construction in the Weezenhof.

Politicians held a meeting about it earlier this month, which was not very hopeful, says Sprangers. "This council does nothing about citizen participation."
Trust gone
Sprangers had hoped that Nijmegen would make it clear before the March municipal elections how residents' participation is regulated in the new law. That will be difficult, said councilor Noël Vergunst in the relevant council meeting earlier this month. “That does take away some confidence. The councilor wants to take it beyond the elections," says Sprangers.

Various suggestions to listen better to residents are rejected, the district councils also write in their letter.

The district councils were already disappointed last month with the way they were handled. The city council wants to collaborate with neighborhood councils in a new way, but forgot to involve the people in those neighborhoods. Councilor Bert Velthuis apologized for this last month.
It's quite a fierce letter, but that's okay

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: December 26, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")