Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='We are not the car wash of society'
NRC
May 12, 2023 Friday
1st Edition


Copyright 2023 Mediahuis NRC B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: DOMESTIC; Page 10
Length: 1240 words
Byline: Arjen Schreuder Photos Olivier Middendorp
Body


ABSTRACT
Report on water managers
The government must take "more decisive" action against "historic water pollution", because the European targets will not be achieved by the end of 2027, an advisory board has said. While: good water is important for both nature and people and the European Commission can hold the Netherlands liable if it does not achieve these goals.
COMPLETE TEXT:
Water managers doubt whether the way we deal with water in the Netherlands is still sustainable. Whether we shouldn't approach everything radically differently. Because: "It is becoming increasingly challenging to get our water clean," says Sander Mager, director of the Amstel, Gooi en Vecht Water Board, and also director of the Union of Water Boards. Mager looks out over one of the eleven sewage treatment plants of his water board in the North Holland village of Nederhorst den Berg and notes that for too long the Dutch have had the "comfortable feeling" that "they can do everything with water, because in the end there is someone who cleans the water".
The water board, namely.
And indeed, on the one hand, it is wonderful that this installation here will soon rid the surrounding sewage water not only of poop, pee and paper, but also of medicine residues and other micro-contaminants. To this end, an installation will be built at a cost of twenty million euros that adds a new step to the purification: breaking down substances by adding ozone. "That ozone breaks long molecular strands, such as from medicine residues, into short pieces and then biomass breaks down those small pieces again with an activated carbon filter," says process technologist Manon Bechger. It is great that water boards such as Amstel, Gooi and Vecht use this technique so that nature no damage occurs in ditches, streams, rivers and lakes. "We feel responsible for that," says director Mager.
Who is responsible?
On the other hand, "society" cannot continue to pollute water. "Enormous confidence has been built up that people like Manon will clean our water again. But there are limits to what you can ask purifiers. We are not the car wash of society. We will not survive without additional measures." Governments should, for example, stipulate much more strictly that producers who release new substances into the environment guarantee that they do not cause harm to people or the environment.
That is difficult enough, because many products, such as medicines, contain substances that harm nature. And: “Who is responsible for that damage? The pharmaceutical industry? The doctor who prescribes the drugs? The user?" Perhaps, he suggests, we will move towards a system in which the user purifies the sewage himself. "Maybe there will come a time when every toilet will have a medicine residue remover."
The water in the Netherlands is often dirty, or at least not nearly clean enough to meet the European standards that will apply from the end of 2027, and which were included in the Water Framework Directive. "The quality and quantity of surface and groundwater in the Netherlands are under pressure," reads the first sentence of an advice to the cabinet of the Council for the Living Environment and Infrastructure (Rli) published on Thursday.
After a lead, now problems
Chairman Jan Jaap de Graeff: "We are not going to make it to 2027. Call it the law of the braking advantage. We made enormous strides in water quality in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. We thought we were there. Subsequently, other processes have gradually emerged: the water system has slowly but surely become contaminated with fertilizers and chemicals, and in recent years there has also been a shortage of water. Now we're in trouble."
There are many things wrong with the water system; there are too many chemicals and so-called nutrients in the groundwater and surface water, and there is a shortage of water during dry periods. With current policy, the goals "can no longer reasonably be achieved" by the end of 2027, according to the council, which calls for a "more decisive approach". De Graeff: “Our concern is primarily substantive in nature. In addition, the legal issue also arises. We could end up in a nitrogen-like situation, where legal proceedings could get in the way of activities. The European Commission can also hold us liable for not achieving the targets."
There is a "lack of urgency" and government policy is "non-binding", according to the advice. "For example, the current general rules for fertilizers, plant protection products and the discharge of hazardous substances are not sufficient" to meet the standards. Many permits have been issued at some point, but are not updated or checked. And this lack of obligation may become even worse with the new Environmental Act, "because a number of activities with an impact on the water systems will no longer require a permit."
Furthermore, municipalities, provinces, water boards and the government perform tasks "insufficiently" and responsibilities are "insufficiently taken up". The Council is calling for a "more compelling" policy, such as weighing water interests in all spatial plans in a so-called 'water test'. From now on, a permit must be applied for or there is a reporting obligation for all water abstractions, and space must be made available for extraction of drinking water. Furthermore, less phosphate and nitrate must end up in the water through animal manure. "Gradually reduce the number of phosphate and animal allowances that are traded, buy these allowances for a reasonable fee and remove them from the market."
'Good water is vital'
And yet: is the situation really as dire as the nitrogen crisis? And won't there be a lot of resistance to the proposed measures, especially from farmers? "Well, if I were a farmer, I would be very concerned about the quality of the water system, just like we are," says Karin Sluis, chairman of the council committee that drew up the advice. "And I would stand firm for these measures. The Water Framework Directive is not a threat but an opportunity. The idea that these types of measures are only necessary to restore nature is far too narrow. Providing good water is vital for nature, but also for farmers , companies, for the drinking water supply. And for public health. We are entering the swimming season again. If there is blue-green algae in the swimming water, it is unhealthy, to name just a small example."
In Nederhorst den Berg, at the sewage treatment plant, water board director Mager endorses the need for measures. "There is still so much to do." He also does not expect that the Netherlands will be able to meet European standards in four years. If only because it will take years before the pollution disappears. Take the pollution of ditches with nitrogen. and phosphate due to intensive agriculture. "We are left with historic pollution. Even if we take all the measures, it will take a long time before you really see the effect in the ditch."
Water managers have difficulty keeping the water in the Netherlands clean. 'We won't make it without additional measures'
For too long, the Dutch have had the comfortable feeling that eventually someone will clean the water again. Sander Mager water board
As a farmer, I would support these measuresKarin Sluis advisory committee
Link to PDF

Graphic

 
A water purification plant in Nederhorst den Berg that removes poop, pee and paper from sewage water.
This installation will soon also purify medicine residues and other micro-contaminants from the water.
There are eleven such installations in this water board (Amstel, Gooi and Vecht).

Load Date: May 11, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")