Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Brielle wind turbine decision postponed: 'Cheap demagoguery'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 22, 2023 Friday 04:58 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 312 words
Byline: Gert Onnink
Body


The municipal council of Voorne aan Zee has postponed a decision on the arrival of two wind turbines along the N57 near Brielle. A decision may be made in January.
Party Voorne aan Zee came up with the intention on Thursday not to discuss the plan. "We do not want to saddle residents with a decision again just before Christmas, which is why this postponement," said councilor Jeroen Noordermeer. Coalition member VVD saw it differently. The liberals thought it was 'cheap demagoguery' to postpone a decision.
The Voorne aan Zee council initially planned to request a declaration of no objections for the plan and to submit the proposal for inspection in mid-January. That will be later now.
VVD leader Henk de Jong pointed out to the council that the wind turbines at the Brielse Brug are a different project than the turbines at the Haringvlietdam. "Moreover, this has nothing to do with the new environmental law. This only affects new applications, not existing ones.”
Colleague Ben van Stijn (GroenLinks/PvdA) was not in the mood for a puppet show. “Those windmills are going to come, so just rip off the band-aid.” According to Margriet den Brok (Fractie Den Brok), residents should not be given false hope. She also stated that construction will continue - based on existing agreements.
The council nevertheless decided to postpone the proposal with 19 votes in favor and 13 against. Mayor Peter Rehwinkel proposed discussing the plan on January 8. That did result in an agreement.
Follow AD Rotterdams Dagblad now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.
Comment? Letters can be sent to our readers' editors, with first, last name and address (the latter not for publication). A reader letter is a maximum of 150 words and can be shortened. We do not post anonymous letters.

Load Date: December 22, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")