Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Building on your own plot can reduce housing shortage, according to Veldhoven municipal council: 'Simple way to get more homes'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 8, 2023 Wednesday 05:01 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 348 words
Byline: Judith Evertse
Body


VELDHOVEN - In order to reduce the major shortage of housing in Veldhoven, Veldhoven politicians want to investigate whether it is possible to allow construction on their own plot.
“It is a simple way to add more homes,” said Maarten Prinsen, leader of the largest party Hart voor Veldhoven. Together with the other Veldhoven factions VVD, GroenLinks-PvdA, CDA and GBV, his party submitted a proposal for the investigation during the budget discussion this week. The city council unanimously approved this motion.
Large plots in small villages
A large number of Veldhoven residents could perhaps build one or more homes in their own backyard, for example for their own children, parents, or for informal care, the proposal states. According to Prinsen, there are opportunities, especially in the small centers - where there are many houses with large plots. “They might be spacious enough to build two houses.”
The municipality must pay the necessary attention to the accessibility of the homes for emergency services and the quality of life for the surrounding area. In addition, the parking standard will have to be adjusted.
Pre-informal care homes
In the proposal, the Municipal Executive is also instructed to investigate whether so-called pre-informal care homes may be developed on the plots of relatives (children, other family members or good friends) by people who have reached state pension age.
This would be an excellent alternative for some elderly people who want or need to continue living independently, or who find it difficult to move to an apartment, for example, the motion states. Several municipalities - including in the region - already allow this form of housing.
A start has already been made
Councilor Caroline van Brakel was also enthusiastic about the plan. “We see opportunities here. As a municipality, we had already made a start on this, but we had to put it aside for a while due to the development of the Environmental Act. We're going to pick it up again now. We will look at how we can make this possible, and under what conditions.”

Load Date: November 9, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")