Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Wind turbines block construction of 5,000 homes: 'Minister must intervene now'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 13, 2024 Saturday 03:23 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 631 words
Byline: Rémon van Zuijlen
Body


Windmills or a residential area? The province of South Holland is giving priority to turbines in one of the few empty spots in the middle of the Randstad. To the frustration of two municipalities that want to build 5,000 homes there. 'I have two sons, who want to live on their own soon. They can forget that. This is stubbornness from the province.'
An undeveloped area of ​​66,000 square meters, on the A12, with station and also in the middle of the Randstad. A perfect location for homes that are in great need at the moment, but the province is at odds, according to the municipalities involved in Lansingerland and Zoetermeer.
"It is crazy that the construction of 5,000 homes near Zoetermeer is off the table with one stroke of the pen," grumbles Hilbrand Nawijn, former minister and leader of local party LHN in Zoetermeer. “Zoetermeer has been seriously affected by this. Many people are looking for a house. Minister De Jonge of Housing must blow the whistle back on the provincial government.”
Millions
He is referring to South Holland's decision to stick with Bleizo - as the area is called - as a search location for wind turbines. The plan for homes, businesses and a campus is therefore off the table for years. Bleizo is located next to Zoetermeer on Lansingerland territory. It is owned by the development company that owns the municipalities. Delay will cost them many millions.
The municipalities see Bleizo as an opportunity to quickly build many homes. However, the province says that Lansingerland promised in 2012 to generate wind energy there. Until now, the municipality has not come up with an alternative, so South Holland identified three promising locations. Including Bleizo.
New station
A brand new station was built at Bleizo at a cost of 80 million euros from the government and the province, among others, with a view to future developments. Thousands of travelers from the new district are also a strong argument for extending the Randstadrail to Rotterdam.
The province's decision is therefore unpalatable for many local politicians. “Incomprehensible,” says councilor Roel van der Vlies (Zó! Zoetermeer). He and a colleague represent the city at development company Bleizo. "They put a hold on the construction of 5,000 homes during the biggest crisis we have now. The province wants to show some muscle in the conflict with Lansingerland. In this intense crisis, this is out of proportion.”
“A very wrong choice that hit hard,” says councilor Bianca Boonstra of WIJ Lansingerland. "The government wants to add 240,000 homes in South Holland. I have two sons, who want to live on their own soon. They can forget that. This is stubbornness on the part of the province. In 2012, we signed the intention to investigate whether it is possible to install wind turbines. The province makes it an obligation.”
Temporary
Deputy Berend Potjer (energy, environmental law) thinks differently about this. "Lansingerland signed up ten years ago to find 12 megawatts of wind turbine locations. They made the same promise again a few years ago. We are happy about that. Unfortunately, Lansingerland has not been able to designate a wind location. Fortunately, we see three suitable locations, which we will now investigate.”
"We have not yet seen any concrete housing plans for Bleizo," says Potjer, who does see opportunities for temporary housing. "This means we can kill three birds with one stone: a location for wind turbines, get started immediately and there is time to to develop good, affordable and concrete plans for Bleizo.”
Follow AD Zoetermeer now via WhatsApp! Tip: Turn on notifications at the top right for all the latest news. Knowing more? Read here all about WhatsApp channels and how to use them. Do you have a tip or comment for the editors? Send us a WhatsApp message on 06-27377816.

Load Date: January 12, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")