Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Shopkeepers are still feeling the consequences of the controversial renovation: builder demands 2.5 million from the municipality
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 26, 2024 Tuesday 04:30 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 592 words
Byline: Dennis l'Ami
Body


The center renewal in the heart of Leimuiden seems to produce only losers. The municipality has a claim worth millions due to disputes over the financial settlement with the builder. Shopkeepers are still dealing with the aftermath of long-opened streets.
The idea was beautiful and is beautiful: a harbor in the center of Leimuiden, where you can sail into with your sloop on a summer day, under a new bridge. But the construction of that river crossing did not take 5 months, as initially planned, but 3 years. And that still keeps people busy.
Because the soil under the bridge abutments on both the Grietpolderweg and Noordeinde sides was too weak, a disagreement arose between builder SBB and the municipality of Kaag en Braassem. The conflict between both parties has now escalated to such an extent that an answer to the question of who is financially responsible for the delay and incurred costs must come to court.
Passed station
SBB has already filed a claim for 2.5 million euros with the municipality for additional costs incurred. Any other way out than a legal one now seems to be a dead end. "There have already been two amicable consultations and it is clear that we will not reach an agreement," says a spokesperson for the municipality of Kaag en Braassem.
The demand for millions is therefore no surprise. “No, unfortunately this did not come out of the blue for us. We have already had several (amicable) discussions with SBB and have not been able to reach an agreement. We regret that legal proceedings have to be initiated.”
Particularly because the municipality does not see itself as a client for this project, the spokesperson explains. “The work is part of the new construction project in the center of the village for which SBB is/was responsible. Due to the upcoming legal proceedings, we will not make any further statements about this at this time.”
The plaintiff is also not generous with answers. To questions from this newspaper about the current situation, 'SBB considers it appropriate to refrain from commenting,' the construction company from IJmuiden writes in a response. In the meantime, the construction work has not yet been completed.
'Ten percent fewer customers'
They are not the only two parties that were left with a bitter aftertaste from the work in the village heart. Shopkeepers in the village experienced firsthand what it is like when construction plans go wrong. "Because it took much longer than originally intended, we lost ten percent of our customers," says Keurslager Jurrien van der Meer.
That is not surprising: his store on Dorpsstraat was much less accessible to his customers for a long time. Contractors' vans occupied the already difficult-to-reach parking spaces during construction. “In addition, communication about the work was very poor and a lot of construction traffic came rushing past.”
To channel the dissatisfaction about this, a letter was sent from the retailers' association to Kaag en Braassem last week. In the letter, the retailers draw the municipality's attention to the fact that they are still dealing with the aftermath, as Van der Meer's example illustrates. Van der Meer does not want to talk about possible damages yet, but they are expected. “That is a possible next step.”
Because the Environmental Act came into effect this year, there is a possibility for retailers to receive compensation if, as in this case, the street has been broken up. Whether this also applies retroactively will become clear in the coming months.

Load Date: March 26, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")