Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Furious residents at information evening about 'metropolitan cycle route': 'Democratic content is low'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 27, 2024 Wednesday 06:27 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 632 words
Byline: Maurice Gispen
Body


The glimmer of hope that residents still had for a say in the 'Metropolitan Cycle Route Delft - Rotterdam Alexander' has really disappeared after Monday evening. During the information evening it became clear that there is little chance of participation anymore. This was to the surprise of the visitors: 'Many people were angry, or even furious.'
The twenty-kilometre-long cycle route has been a topic of discussion for months among residents of the municipalities of Pijnacker-Nootdorp, Delft and Rotterdam, among others. A total of twenty-one municipalities are involved in the plan. Many local residents are against the construction of the cycle route because they do not see its added value.
They advocate preserving peace and nature for animals and residents. In addition, the cycling safety of the plan is questioned because the dike is not widened, which they say could increase the risk of accidents.
An information evening took place on Monday evening. “There were about sixty to seventy residents. Many people were extremely angry or even furious," says Rogier Nelck of the Ackersdijk Nature Group. Pure nature and resident of the Oude Bovendijk. Together with other residents of the future bicycle route, he is committed to (more) consultation between municipalities, the process supervisor for the Rotterdam Metropolitan Region The Hague (MRDH) and residents about this plan.
What made them so angry, he describes, is the lack of consultation. “The decision has already been made, the scribble is already underneath it. As a result, participation with residents was completely ignored. Which is mandatory according to the Environmental Act.” And yet in some places the cycle route runs right past residents' backyards.
Nobody raises a hand
During the meeting, residents were asked who was in favor of the plan. Nelck: “No one raised their hand. Perhaps no one dared to do that, because the overall atmosphere was negative.” Why the question was asked is a mystery to him. "The democratic level is very low. It feels a bit like the door has already been selected and we can still have a say in the color of the door, so to speak.” According to him, that is not a full-fledged form of participation. "We were only officially informed yesterday for the first time about a plan that has been running for almost two years. That is far too late.”
What local residents are concerned about, among other things, is the construction of the 'bicycle ecoduct' over the A13. "Because the design includes a small strip of green on the viaduct, they sell it as a sustainable design. In this way, the municipality of Delft also benefits from the subsidies from the MRDH,” says Nelck.
Supporter of fast cycle paths
However, not everyone is necessarily against the plan to build a cycle route. “I am in favor of increasing mobility and I see the usefulness of fast cycle paths, but this plan is not safe.” Residents would therefore prefer to see the municipalities withdraw the plan and write a new plan in which residents are involved in the decision-making process. Nelck describes the evening as disappointing. “We were hoping for some input, but found out that the decision had already been made.”
The spokesperson for the municipality of Rotterdam, who was present on Monday evening, said he was taking the residents' concerns seriously. "We will inform the MRDH about the residents' questions and suggestions and we will investigate how we can continue to have proper discussions with residents about this cycle path in the near future."
To get some movement in the deadlocked plan, local residents want to send letters to the municipality showing how municipalities have not failed to comply with the Environmental Act. "We have finally had an information evening, but we are not happy. First we have to process this, then we will see what else we can do.”

Load Date: March 27, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")