Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Anger about Awacs in municipalities reaches boiling point
The Limburger
January 28, 2022 Friday
Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 9
Length: 502 words
Byline: Geertjan Claessens
Body


Brunssum and Beekdaelen are fed up with the fact that no progress has been made in tackling problems surrounding the Awacs. In the last consultation with representatives of two ministries, frustrations ran high in both municipalities.
No quieter and cleaner engines on the Awacs and no research into the emissions of the reconnaissance aircraft. There is also no prospect of a quality of life fund or a conversation with the new State Secretary about the problems. Not for the first time, Beekdaelen and Brunssum are left empty-handed after the consultation of the Awacs committee. They cross swords several times a year with representatives of NATO base Geilenkirchen and the Ministries of Defense and Infrastructure and Water Management (I and W).
That consultation seems like a ritual dance, and has for years yielded far too little to the liking of both municipalities. Their residents suffer from emissions from the 'noise boxes', but there is little they can do about it. A proposal for (consultation on) a quality of life fund to ease the pain has been dragging on for more than two years. At the beginning of 2020, both municipalities demanded that they allocate 200 million, intended for matters such as home insulation, compensation and health research.
Noise demonstration
The demand was put forward during a visit by then State Secretary Barbara Visser (VVD) of Defense, who was met with a noise demonstration in Beekdaelen. Since then, Beekdaelen and Brunssum have been waiting for the promised follow-up meeting. Defense could not yet say on Wednesday when the new State Secretary could arrive. There is also no progress in the requested research into the influence of ultrafine dust emissions from Awacs on air quality in the region. It is so small that it cannot be measured, says I and W, which wants to await an investigation around Schiphol.
Involve
On Wednesday afternoon, the consultation did include presentations on the new Environmental Act and the airspace revision, intended to involve residents in plans for the design of their environment and to manage air traffic better. But neither plan changes anything around the Awacs base, because this is a foreign airport. This leads to even more frustration and impotent anger in both municipalities. The Hague fully cooperates with NATO, while the municipality cannot do anything about it with the new rules, alderman Jeannette Quadvlieg (Renewal Group, Beekdaelen) notes bitterly. The municipality has often been in conflict with Defense, which wants Beekdaelen to include space for Awacs flights in a zoning plan.
While the aviation reform is partly intended to make aviation cleaner and more sustainable, Awacs continue to fly with polluting noise engines, which proves to councilor Servie L'Espoir (PAK, Brunssum) that this region is a drain. Committee chairman Geert Gabriëls (deputy, GroenLinks) hinted that he can understand the concerns of both municipalities. Defense promises to convey its concerns to the State Secretary.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 27, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")