Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Housing plan for 50 new homes in Lopikerkapel available for inspection by mid-December at the latest
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
November 29, 2023 Wednesday 03:28 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 286 words
Byline: Karin Verhoef
Body


The draft zoning plan for the construction of 50 homes in Lopikerkapel (De Kapelse Gaard construction plan) will be available for inspection around mid-December. B and W van Lopik want to ensure that the draft plan is ready before the long-delayed Environmental Act comes into effect on January 1, 2024.
They write this in a memo to the city council. B and W want to avoid having to do part of the work again, while the municipality is already struggling with a staff shortage, if the plan comes under the Environment Act. All kinds of parts then have to be adjusted. The city council is examining for which other projects the zoning plans can be inspected in December. This will probably also work for the Zeldenrust plan in Benschop.
The intention is for fifty homes to be built on the grounds of the Lopikerweg Oost 199 farm. According to the design plan, the existing company home will become a regular civilian home. Furthermore, three 'room-by-room' houses will be built as compensation for the demolition of the farm buildings on the agricultural property and a livestock farm at Achtersloot 33c in IJsselstein.
Adjustments to the zoning plan
The intention is to connect to the existing playground, which will be redesigned in the plan and serve as a connection to the existing village center. The construction of a recreational path for walkers and cyclists to the Lekdijk is also planned. That path fits within the existing zoning plan, but to make housing construction possible, the municipal council must change the current zoning plan with an agricultural function.
When the Environmental Act comes into force, there will no longer be zoning plans, but environmental plans.

Load Date: November 29, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")