Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Homes in a run-down 'schnitzel paradise'
The Gelderlander
April 22, 2023 Saturday
Betuwe EditionRivierenland Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 400 words
Byline: STEPHEN FRIEDRICHS
Highlight: Twenty apartments are to be built in the heart of Gendt, where the café-restaurant Im Weissen Rössl once was. Most of this is aimed at starters.
Body


Apartments mainly intended for starters
Stephen Friedrich's Jesse Reith

Gendt

The former restaurant on Dorpsstraat in Gendt, which was popularly known as 'the schnitzel paradise' due to its southern German appearance, has been empty for more than ten years. Developer Michel van Wijk, together with building owner Dirk Ventrop, has recently had various discussions with the municipality.

"The municipality placed a lot of emphasis on the arrival of affordable housing," says Van Wijk. "Understandable. In our daily practice we often see that young people in their late twenties, who often also have a good job "It's very difficult to find a home."
Opportunity for starters
The majority of the apartments will therefore be sold for a purchase price of less than €300,000, the developer says. "We hope to give starters in the region a good chance. As it looks now, only three apartments will be more expensive than the limit of last year's National Mortgage Guarantee (355,000 euros, ed.)."

The final touches are currently being put in place, says Van Wijk. "Make sure you have sufficient parking space, without inconveniencing local residents. We will then officially announce our final plans and share them with the neighborhood."

What is certain in any case: the current building of Im Weissen Rössl can no longer be saved. "Unfortunately, it is too far gone for that," said Van Wijk. "So that is going to fail."

"A nice development," councilor Maarten van den Bos calls the fact that something is finally going to happen. "We are realizing homes and solving a not so nice situation in Gendt." He talks about 'very good consultation' with the owner of the building. " According to him, the concrete preparations start after the summer holidays. "And after the New Year we really pick up the pace. That's when the new Environmental Act comes into effect, which changes the way we make plans."
Other locations
Research by the municipality of Lingewaard has shown that there is a need for around 270 new homes in Gendt up to and including 2030. The intention is for most of this to be completed before 2026. Other locations that the municipality is investigating for possible housing include the former municipal yard, the Kruigang, Villa Ganita and the old town hall

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: April 21, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")