Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Yoga lessons Get fit, is the motto in Mheer. E...
The Limburger
February 19, 2022 Saturday
Maastricht


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: ALLBONNEUR; Page 6
Length: 559 words
Byline: Joos Philippens And René Willems
Body


Allebonneur, the section where there is room for a critical note, a bit of society news and a nod to hotshots who sometimes take themselves too seriously.
Yoga classes
Get fit, is the motto in Mheer. And it's free, if we can believe what it says on the sign that our photographer Gert Lammer came across in the village: get down on your knees and pick up your dog's poop. Good for body and mind. And the village is immediately rid of that mess on the sidewalk. (RW)
Rivalry
However proud the residents of Mheer are of their village, those of Banholt apparently have little regard for their neighboring village. Since Mheer and Banholt clashed a century and a half ago over the location for the new church, which ultimately led to an ecclesiastical secession from Banholt, the rivalry between the two villages is still great. So big in fact that councilor Rob Hermans from Banholt would prefer to close his eyes when he drives through Mheer on the way to work in Maastricht. "I'm always happy when I get through it," he admitted this week during the debate on new construction in Mheer in the council meeting. A joke, of course. We hope anyway. (RW)
Apologies
Citizen participation is like 'ouch!' Municipalities must ask citizens for their opinion as standard, as is enshrined in the new Environmental Act. In the Groene Loper school campus issue, there is an impasse between the LVO foundation and the municipality about the best location. And so there is a meeting in which the residents are asked. However, the Scharn-West Neighborhood Committee - which would like to become a neighborhood participation pilot - responded to the invitation as if stung by a wasp.
Apologies 2
Councilor Bert Jongen was told in an email on Friday that it was a pleasure. 'The Scharn-West Neighborhood Committee has been trying for more than a year and a half to enter into a conversation with you about various topics (including the school campus) and now you want TOO SHORT TERM (within 14 days and register no later than next Sunday!!! ) and call a meeting at a terribly DIFFICULT TIME'.
Phew, someone was angry here.
Apologies 3
On Monday morning, the neighborhood committee humbly crawls through the digital mailbox: 'Our offensive and disrespectful way of writing does not fit in at all with our neighborhood committee and the way we want to collaborate and communicate with the municipality of Maastricht. We apologize for this inappropriate tone and writing style.
Committee member Marc Vossen admits guilt. “The attitude of the municipality is irritating. A month ago there was no news, the municipality said, and shortly afterwards there appeared to be a thick report. That morning we just had a disappointing conversation with officials full of 'sorry's' and 'that's just how things go in the municipality'. Then I let myself go a bit. We stand by our criticism, but the tone was wrong.'
Another day later Bert Jongen responds, but apparently not to the apology. 'First of all, I must say that I regret the tone of your message.' He says that the meeting will continue as normal.
Question of the day: how often does a municipality apologize openly when it has made a mistake? (JP)
Cittaslow
Gulpen-Wittem is Cittaslow. Take it easy so the line doesn't break. Shouldn't be a problem, says councilor Ineke van der Laan: if everyone were as slow as the board, you would automatically become very Cittaslow... (RW)
PDF file of this document

Load Date: February 18, 2022, pronunciation=None, extra_data="{'translat...")