Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Gentle surgeons undesirable
The Gelderlander
July 9, 2011 Saturday
Achiterhoek EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionNijmegen City EditionRenkum EditionRiviereland EditionAppendix EditionDe Valley EditionVeluwe EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2011 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: OPINION
Length: 823 words
Byline: FRANS TONNAER
Body


RESUME
Environmental law is moving rapidly. The government merged permit systems into one 'environmental permit'. But action must now be taken.
COMPLETE TEXT:
by Frans Tonnaer
 F ollowing a period of legal regulations in sub-areas, in recent years there has been a merging of regulations in the field of environmental law, water law, nature conservation law, construction law and spatial planning law. The Environmental Law General Provisions Act (Wabo) was introduced on October 1, 2010. A first important step, in which the integrated environmental permit was introduced. The government thus merged 25 permit systems into one 'environmental permit'.
 The Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment, Melanie Schultz van Haegen, now wants to go even further in reducing the administrative and administrative burdens. She wants to create one Environmental Act. But beware, the problems cannot be solved with a few adjustments and merging schemes!
 An analysis of what has happened so far makes it clear that gentle surgeons are undesirable in this process. Action will now have to be taken, so that in some time we will be asking ourselves how such a complicated system could be used, because it still is.
 And this becomes especially clear when the existing schemes are lumped together. Only then does it become clear how many there are and how poorly they are coordinated. The stairs should be swept clean from above. The government should merge the existing plans in the field of environmental law into one environmental vision. Such a vision forces people to make choices. So don't want to plan everything from above, but only protect real government interests such as military sites, airports, the ecological main structure, etc. This cleaning up is even more necessary in the context of regulations. The dozens of laws and hundreds of executive orders in the areas of the environment, water, nature and construction are the well-known trees of the forest in which citizens but also civil servants get lost. Here, it is mainly provinces and municipalities that can benefit from simplified and clear rules.
 Unnecessary rules should not be swept down a flight of stairs, but they should really be cleared away. In spatial planning, the provinces sometimes take over the regulatory role of the government, by bombarding the municipalities with regulations, for example in spatial regulations or environmental regulations.
 There are also some provinces that set a good example by establishing integrated environmental plans with integrated regulations tailored to them. The provinces must leave the municipalities the necessary room for their own policy as laid down in the Municipalities Act. The same mistake should not be made here as at government level by wanting to regulate everything. So clearly indicate what exactly the provincial interests are and give the municipalities the space to determine, for example, where an industrial estate should be expanded, a residential area should be added or a recreational area should be developed.
 And then there must definitely be a clean sweep on the bottom step as well. Municipalities should make serious efforts to introduce a single plan that replaces the existing plans, programs and memoranda in this area. Consider the plans regarding welfare policy, green policy, environmental policy plan, mobility plan, sewerage plan, soil policy plan and much more. The zoning plan should also be included in such a general plan. This includes clear rules that make it possible for citizens to use a map to see where, for example, building is and is not allowed. The uncertainty as to whether a permit can be obtained can therefore be significantly reduced.
 But we're not there yet. Above all, it is important that the government deals differently with citizens. No longer imposing rules from above, but making agreements within a clear framework, as just outlined, about how the board will handle its powers.
 What return is expected if the company is allowed to expand in the countryside? Sitting down at the table with the neighbor in the town hall when a 'building environmental permit' (as that's what it's called nowadays) is being applied for.
 How can the construction plan be implemented so that everyone can agree with it? This also requires flexibility on the part of the citizens and this is often available if people feel taken seriously by the administration and civil servants. And there is no need to wait until the new law is in place. Where there is a will there is a way. The renewal can start tomorrow with an adjustment of administrative culture.
 The provinces and municipalities must show that they have understood the spirit of the times!
  Prof. Dr. Frans Tonnaer is professor of environmental law at the Open University and general director of Tonnaer Adviseurs in Environmental Law.

Graphic

 
The provinces must leave the municipalities the necessary space for their own policy and the space to determine, for example, where a residential area will be added. --PHOTO SOURCE--archive photo Do Visser/De Gelderlander

Load Date: July 9, 2011, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")