Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Six thousand tons of potatoes are causing a stir - literally and figuratively - in the Mortel
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 18, 2023 Monday 11:10 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 432 words
Byline: Hans Vermeeren
Body


DE MORTEL - The plan for the construction of a potato warehouse in the outskirts of De Mortel is not well received by some politicians and local residents. And is therefore insecure.
Part of the municipal council believes that Alderman Willeke van Zeeland (CDA) has acted far too expeditiously with these construction plans. These council members also accuse her of not giving local residents enough input in the planning process.
During winter months
This involves the construction of a warehouse at De Bleek, just outside De Mortel, on a site where until recently a pig and dairy farm was located. Potatoes should be stored there during the winter months, which will be harvested in various places in the region after the summer. They would then be removed again in the spring.
The residents of this farm are concerned about the large amount of extra freight traffic that this plan will entail. They argue that the roads are not designed for this. According to Alderman Van Zeeland, this is not so bad, because in the past there was also freight traffic to and from the farm.
We have to do something with this signal
According to the alderman, converting the farm into a beeper storage shed of 2,800 square meters fits in perfectly with the municipal plans to bring about changes in the rural economy. "After all, we strive for a liveable and enterprising rural area," said the councilor.
Van Zeeland receives support from the council factions of the CDA and the Village Party. But the opposition - Sociaal Gemert-Bakel, D66 and Politics on Content - is taking a more reserved stance, as is the coalition party Local Realists. They point out that local residents believe they are not being taken seriously. “We have to do something with this signal,” said Jan Vroomans of Politiek Op Inhoud.
Extra council meeting
The problem is that the Municipal Executive wants to give permission for the plan to be implemented before January 1. The new Environmental Act will come into effect on that date. New consultation with local residents would mean postponement of the potato warehouse plan, which would require the plan to be completely rewritten, according to Van Zeeland. "I cannot yet predict what consequences this will have for us as a municipality, both legally and financially."
However, an opposition motion to postpone the meeting was unsuccessful. The opposition is now considering whether an additional council meeting should be scheduled for January 1 to raise the issue again.

Load Date: December 19, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")