Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Solar panels on every new building'
The Limburger
October 14, 2021 Thursday
HeerlenKL


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 1
Length: 311 words
Byline: Jan Hensels
Body


New buildings must have solar panels on the roof, if it is up to the province of Limburg. There is no such obligation for homes.
The solar panels must be installed on new offices, schools, factories, barracks, hospitals and town halls.
The province believes that municipalities in Limburg should draw up provisions to enforce the installation of solar panels. The Environmental Act, which is expected to come into effect on July 1 next year, offers legal starting points to set further rules for the sustainable use of buildings, says deputy Maarten van Gaans (D66, Energy) in a letter to the Provincial Council. Moreover, from that moment on, municipalities will have the opportunity to require solar panels with the amendment of the Building Works and Living Environment Decree, the deputy makes clear.
New buildings that do not meet the Nearly Energy Neutral Building requirements should have solar panels on the roof. But not all roofs are equally suitable for this. "Then other sustainable solutions are also possible, such as roofs with greenery on them," says a spokesperson for the province.
With this obligation, the Provincial Executive is responding to a wish of the Provincial Council. A motion by CDA Member of Parliament Emma Palmen at the end of last year to work on the solar panel obligation received a majority.
The province recognizes that with the promotion of sustainable energy, the need to expand the power network increases. “We also clearly see a role for the government in that area. We do not expect that the obligation will lead to an overcrowded network," the spokesman said.
2022
The Environmental Act, which must come into effect on July 1, 2022, provides legal basis for setting further rules for new buildings.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 13, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")