Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Did the new Tilburg water storage facilities cause wet cellars? 'Unprecedented in 100 years'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 25, 2024 Thursday 03:40 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 704 words
Byline: Erik van Hest
Body


TILBURG - Water suddenly flowed into dozens of cellars in Tilburg in December. The cause seems clear: the abundant rainfall resulted in an exceptionally high groundwater level. Or is there something else going on in Tilburg?
The cellar under the LeJeune butcher's building in Willem II Street remained dry for more than 100 years. But in December, water suddenly seeped through the old masonry. “The water just kept coming,” says Jean-Maurice LeJeune, the fourth generation of the Tilburg butcher family. "We had to pump out the cellar four or five times. Now fortunately the worst seems to be over, but there is still water in it.”
Crate system
LeJeune wasn't the only one who had to pump out his basement recently. Residents also saw groundwater flowing into their basement (often for the first time) in streets such as Kwaadeindstraat, Korvelseweg and Stationstraat and in the Burgemeestersbuurt. This happened remarkably often in streets where underground water storage facilities were constructed in the past few years.
As part of climate adaptation, the municipality of Tilburg is placing a 'crate system' under the streets in many places in the city. In these places, rainwater will no longer be drained directly via the sewer, but will remain in the soil for longer. In times of prolonged drought, the trees benefit from this. But what if the soil is extremely wet?
Frans van Aarle of political party Lokaal Tilburg thinks that there may be a connection between the many flooded cellars and the recent redesign of all kinds of streets. A suspicion that this is also common among owners of flooded cellars. “Dozens of buildings have been affected in the Componistenbuurt and in the city center, especially in Willem II Street. It is striking that these are cellars that have been dry for decades and suddenly flooded after redevelopment," says Van Aarle.
The group leader of Lokaal Tilburg has asked the council for clarification. Pending formal answers to those questions, the municipality could not say much this week about a possible relationship between flooding and water storage. "We are investigating it," a spokesperson said. "We have invested a lot in the drainage of rainwater, so our streets are no longer flooded. We were actually not familiar with the phenomenon of wet cellars in Tilburg. We are now looking at why that happens.”
Soil like a sponge
Home owners who reported their wet basement via the Fixi app in recent weeks were often told that 'flooded basements or crawl spaces are not the responsibility of the municipality'. For further questions, the municipality referred them to the water board.
In any case, De Dommel Water Board says it is not responsible. A spokesperson: "Everywhere in Brabant, cellars have been flooded due to the high groundwater level. An amount of rain has fallen since the summer that we have never seen before. This caused the soil to fill up like a sponge. So it may well be true that people got water in their basement.”
Construction error
According to De Dommel's spokesperson, from a legal perspective there is only liability if damage is caused by unlawful actions. "It sounds annoying, but people are responsible for the way their house is built. If basements are flooded, it is actually a construction defect that needs to be addressed.” Asked whether the water board sees a connection between the wet cellars and the water systems, the spokesperson bounces the ball back to Tilburg. “The municipality is in charge of the sewer. We as a water board cannot say anything about that.”
Frans van Aarle also believes that the municipality cannot shift responsibility for flooding too easily. He points to the Environmental Act, which describes the groundwater task of municipalities. “The fact that there was an exceptionally high groundwater level does not absolve the municipality of the obligation to have water management in good order.”
A video from the municipality explaining (from 2:07 minutes) how water storage works in Tilburg:

Load Date: April 3, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")