Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Concerns about the safety of dikes
Limburgs Dagblad
March 3, 2012 Saturday
hl Edition


Copyright 2012 Media Groep Limburg / Limburgs Dagblad All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 378 words
Byline: by Bjinse Dankert and Sander Zurhake
Body


Concerns about the safety of dikes ENVIRONMENTAL LAWWater boards fear losing authority due to Minister Schultz's policy
THE HAGUE - Water boards are concerned about the consequences of the new environmental law of Minister Melanie Schultz (Infrastructure and Environment).
They fear they will soon lose their authority to stop construction projects that threaten water safety.
Schultz wants to reduce bureaucracy by placing the responsibility for issuing construction and water safety permits at a single counter.
Municipalities are expected to be given this task.
Water boards are afraid that dike safety will lose out to economic interests, since municipalities earn a lot of money from the sale of building land.
The law would mean a further erosion of the administrative power that the water boards still have. It is already difficult for the water boards to stop unsafe projects. Municipalities are currently allowed to ignore the safety advice of a water board.
For example, in 2004 an apartment complex was built on the Maasdijk in Tegelen. As a result, the water board cannot strengthen the dike until it meets the legal safety standard. A recreational park in the Frisian town of Grouw was almost washed away in January because the water board was unable to strengthen essential quays. According to the water board, the owners of holiday homes were afraid that a higher quay would 'spoil the view'.
Sybe Schaap, VVD senator and extraordinary professor of water management at Delft University of Technology, is critical. If you transfer water management to another government, such as the province or municipality, spatial planning and water safety come under one umbrella. Then I can predict what will happen: then spatial order wins."
Peter Glas, chairman of the umbrella Union of Water Boards, thinks it is a good idea to reduce bureaucracy. But what we are against is that the principle 'you either go about it or you don't' is now being forcibly implemented."
He emphasizes that the body that has the knowledge, the water boards, must also have the ultimate say.
A spokesperson for Minister Schultz says that the water boards remain primarily responsible for water safety.

Load Date: March 3, 2012, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")