Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Construction costs in Nederweert may increase significantly
The Limburger
September 14, 2019 Saturday
Roermond


Copyright 2019 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 296 words
Byline: BY PIETERNEL KELLENAERS
Body


 PRICES
NEDERWEERT
The costs for a building permit in Nederweert will increase by 25 percent next year. The Municipal Executive wants to make the rates cost-effective.
In concrete terms, the council proposal means that someone who wants to build a house that costs 170,000 euros will soon pay 3,375 euros for a permit that currently costs 2,700 euros.
This makes Nederweert still cheaper than Leudal and Weert, where residents pay almost 4,000 euros for a permit to build a house.
The reason for the increase is to make the rates cost-effective. "Just as the polluter pays for waste taxes, it is not fair for building permits if all residents contribute to new construction," says responsible councilor Henk Cuijpers. "Because that is what it comes down to if the builder of a new home only pays 75 percent of will reimburse the costs to the municipality. At the request of the municipal council, we have calculated this and as far as I am concerned, the new rates will be introduced on January 1."
In the past three years, the municipality of Nederweert has contributed an average of more than 130,000 euros from its own coffers, according to the cost-coverage study. Money that can also be used for other things in the municipality.
The costs for a building permit will be recalculated every year. And although two new laws (Building Quality Assurance Act and the Environmental Act) will come into effect in 2021 that should simplify the issuing of permits, the question remains whether costs will decrease again.
Cuijpers: "That remains to be seen because new environmental regulations are also in the making."
The proposal to increase building permits will be discussed by the municipal council during the budget discussion on November 5.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 14, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")