Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=[Concerns about construction plans on natural meadows The local residents...]*
The Gelderlander
July 19, 2021 Monday


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 441 words
Body


Concerns about construction plans on natural meadows

The residents of the nature meadows on the 'internal area Krommehoekstraat-Augustuslaan-Wilhelminalaan' have taken note of reports in De Gelderlander of Tuesday, July 6: Beuningen housing plans are no longer cast in cement, residents can have their say.

The practice seems a bit more unruly. Local residents and those directly involved were accidentally surprised in April 2020 by a private initiative for the construction of approximately 45 homes in a unique rural piece of green Beuningen. The plots in question have been zoned Residential since 2013 without the possibility of residential construction. Previous requests to build a home were already rejected in 2018.

The vast majority of local residents and those directly and indirectly involved have chosen this green location because it can make a particularly positive contribution to their living enjoyment, precisely because of the space and tranquility.

Another argument that people are very concerned about is road safety, which is already compromised by large numbers of traffic movements to and from De Peppel primary school and for which the current infrastructure is not designed.

A very tight access has been projected between the senior housing and the main entrance of the primary school, which does not bring a safer and clear situation any closer, on the contrary.

It is not without reason that schools are classified as very vulnerable buildings in the new Environmental Act. We hope, together with all local residents, for less crowds, a quieter and safe living environment. The hustle and bustle is somewhat compensated by the peace and quiet that residents currently experience in the courtyard.

It is a unique piece of nature located between Wilhelminalaan - Augustuslaan and Krommehoekstraat. We as residents have very serious concerns regarding proposed plans in which local residents have not been involved at all or have not been informed about them by the initiators. We fear that, due to the delays that the (draft) Vision Panorama 2040 has suffered after the council meeting of July 5, the council wants to push through the infill locations.

As a committee, we have visited almost all local political parties and attended many meetings, but we get the feeling that the municipality pays little attention to all our objections. As local residents, we strive to have the proposed plans scrapped in their entirety, partly because the government is focusing nationally on encouraging and preserving nature instead of building on it.

J. German, on behalf of the neighborhood action committee, Beuningen

View the original page: page 3

Load Date: July 18, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")