Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Concerns about ENCI quarry transfer
The Limburger
April 19, 2019 Friday
Maastricht


Copyright 2019 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 01; Page 4
Length: 428 words
Byline: BY VIKKIE BARTHOLOMEUS
Body


 NATURAL MONUMENTS
MAASTRICHT
There are major concerns about the transfer of the ENCI quarry to Natuurmonumenten. There is still too much uncertainty about safety, the layout of the area and the financial feasibility to definitively transfer the quarry in January 2020.
The province, municipality of Maastricht, Natuurmonumenten and ENCI are discussing the future of the quarry. It is clear that agreements made for the transfer of the quarry cannot be fulfilled or cannot be fulfilled on time. For example, ENCI must take care of the fencing and other safety aspects on the site.
This is seriously delayed due to all kinds of procedures, including nature tests that were not previously provided for. Nature legislation has become much stricter since the agreements regarding the quarry were established in 2010.
Furthermore, there is no consensus yet on the content of the ENCI area and the associated zoning plan that must be drawn up.
There are currently four scenarios from which a choice must still be made. If this is not possible before the end of the year, developments at ENCI will have to be tested against the new Environmental Act, resulting in further delays and uncertainty.
No concrete steps have yet been taken for facilities for visitors that would be ready for the transfer. Such as a more spacious parking lot and a spacious entrance at the so-called Central Allee, which will run through the middle of the current factory site. Natuurmonumenten also wants guarantees that the costs of managing the quarry are at least partly covered.
The intention was that the so-called transition zone between the factory site and the quarry would generate money, for example through wellness or recreation companies that would establish themselves here. But this did not work.
Natuurmonumenten fears that it will be impossible to get everything arranged before January. “Everyone is of good will. We started this optimistically, but the reality is more difficult than we had estimated," says manager Eduard Habets.
There is also uncertainty about the position of the ENCI Area Development Company Foundation (SOME) in the long term. Last year, the municipality, province and ENCI had to step in to prevent SOME from going bankrupt. It is still unclear what the consequences will be for visitors to the quarry. The walking route between the stairs on the Luikerweg and Chalet d'n Observant will probably only be open in the course of the summer, also because of nature tests that still have to be carried out first.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 19, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")