Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Provide free sunscreen everywhere'
The Limburger
April 19, 2021 Monday
entire editionVenloVenrayRoermondWTMaastrichtSittard-GeleenHeerlenKL


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: SKIN CANCER ACTION PLAN; Page 33
Length: 368 words
Byline: Roy Klopper
Body


Shady areas must also be created in open recreational areas and there should be an excise tax on sunbed visits. The action plan was written by oncologists, dermatologists, insurers and patient organizations, among others, who sit on a special steering group.
Increase
The report notes a 'worrying increase' in skin cancer. There are now 70,000 new cases per year in our country, more than all new patients with breast, colon, lung and prostate cancer combined. The experts warn of major social consequences. 'Hospital care for patients with skin cancer cost 465 million euros in 2017, without measures this will be more than 1.3 billion euros in 2030.'
The steering group wants to start as soon as possible with annual information campaigns for risk groups such as outdoor athletes, outdoor workers and sunbed users. Parents must also become aware of the need to protect their children from the sun. Shade areas are also urged at sports fields, walking areas and swimming meadows. This can be done with trees, but also with 'sun shelters'. "Municipalities, provinces and water boards can make this mandatory via the Environmental Act," said Jaap Touw, chairman of the Skin Cancer Foundation (Hukas).
Can be arranged quickly
In addition, free sunscreen must be made available at sports fields, schoolyards, swimming pools and canteens at construction sites. "The pumps with hand gel that have appeared everywhere during the corona crisis show that this can be arranged quickly." And there is a plea to discourage the use of the sunbed through an additional excise tax. "The extra tax on unhealthy behavior is also used for alcohol and tobacco."
The association of recognized tanning salons, Samenwerking Veilig Zonnen (SVZ), rejects this proposal as 'unnecessary'. Chairman Huib van Heest says he is still waiting for evidence to support the frequently heard statement that sunbeds cause health damage. “That is an unfounded assumption, which has not been proven by any scientist. The problem lies rather with overindulgence. That is why, in our opinion, the proposals for sunscreen in public spaces are a good idea."
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 18, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")