Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Swimming ticket in 'region' more expensive
The Gelderlander
August 5, 2022 Friday
Betuwe Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 2, 3
Length: 541 words
Byline: LEX HALSEMA
Highlight: A ticket for the swimming pool in Bemmel will become one euro more expensive next month. At 7.95 euros per time, it is also by far the most expensive swimming ticket in the four Betuwe swimming pools. Ezzys in Zetten is the cheapest at 4.35 euros.
Body


Large price differences between four baths in Bemmel, Elst, Huissen and Zetten
Lex Halsema

Elst/Bemmel

The pool in Bemmel is owned by Laco Recreatie bv, a company with 39 swimming pools in various places in the country. The same prices are charged in all those baths. For free swimming in the Bemmelse bath, 7.95 euros must be paid, compared to one euro less last month.

A spokesperson for Laco does not want to explain the price increase and refers to the company's website. He does want to say that energy costs in particular have risen enormously. “And we have to respond to that in order to continue to survive as a company. Then you can contact the municipality or the customer, we had to choose for the customer."

The company's website mentions the energy bill as the main reason for the price increase, but personnel costs are also a factor, according to Laco. 'After corona, the year 2022 was supposed to provide financial recovery, but rising energy costs, supplier costs, wage costs and the introduction of the new Environmental Act have major consequences for our industry. Due to these developments, we are forced to increase our rates as of September 1, 2022," the company writes.

At 7.95 euros per time, the bath in Bemmel charges almost double the baths in Huissen (Optisport, 4.50 euros), Elst (De Helster, 4.45 euros) and Zetten (Ezzys, 4.35 euros). Prices have also risen slightly there, but this is a matter of penny-pinching. In Elst the price went up by 10 percent this year. A motion by PvdA and D66 to halve the price increase did not pass. The pool in Elst is the only one of the four owned by the municipality itself and the management is in the hands of the municipal sports company.

All four baths also offer 'ten trip cards'. In Bemmel such a card costs 79.50 euros and gives twelve admissions, which means two free entrances. In Huissen you can swim freely twelve times for 45 euros, so the purchase is also good for two 'free' turns. In Elst it costs 44.50 euros and eleven entrances. A 25-ride ticket can also be purchased there for 97.90 euros (three 'free' admissions). In Zetten you get twelve admissions for 44.50 euros, which also provides a price advantage compared to individual tickets.

The prices for swimming lessons also differ and are the most expensive in Zetten. There you have to pay 19.15 euros per lesson, which for four lessons per month amounts to 76.60 euros. In Elst a month of lessons costs 72.40 euros, but then you have to take lessons on weekdays. For swimming lessons during the weekend, 81.60 euros will be charged.

There is also a choice in Huissen, for regular swimming lessons the bill is 54.10 euros per month. In Bemmel, swimming lessons cost 67.50 euros per month. All four swimming pools also charge a one-time starting fee for swimming lessons.

Energy costs are a particular sore point for swimming pools throughout the country. In many cases it has quadrupled. This results in higher prices at the cash register and lowering the water temperature by 1 or 2 degrees.

View the original page: page 2, page 3

Load Date: August 4, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")