Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Swimming is increasingly becoming a scarce luxury
The Limburger
April 20, 2024 Saturday
entire circulation|Venlo|Venray|Roermond|Weert|Maastricht|Sittard-Geleen|Heerlen|Kerkrade


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 20, 18, 21, 19
Length: 2356 words
Body


Tropical swimming pool Mosaqua in Gulpen must close if it is up to the municipal council. It is too expensive. But if even a crowd-puller like Mosaqua, with a quarter of a million visitors per year, is not profitable, what about other swimming pools?
you
He is very proud. It is not often that three major recreational projects are opened simultaneously on one day. It is March 25, 1992 and Wiel Vossen, then mayor of Gulpen, is delighted. In the presence of the mayors of the surrounding Heuvelland municipalities and Maastricht and - now deceased - the late Governor Emile Mastenbroek, the renovated South Limburg Golf and Country Club, Mosaqua swimming pool and Primosa educational visitor center are inaugurated. The drummed harmony plays the Limburg national anthem, which is sung along at the top of their lungs.
But the euphoria is short-lived. Primosa turns out to be a failure. The glass pyramid does not attract 200,000 visitors per year, as hoped, but only 15,000. After a few months, bankruptcy is filed. An investment of 9.5 million guilders, coughed up by the eight Heuvelland municipalities, goes up in smoke. The pyramid is bought by the owner of the nearby pancake restaurant for 260,000 euros. The same entrepreneur sold a dilapidated shed for 250,000 euros two years earlier to make the construction of Primosa possible.
Keep pace
Mosaqua initially lives up to the high expectations. With almost a quarter of a million visitors every year, the tropical swimming paradise is becoming one of the most important attractions in the region. The thirtieth anniversary will be fully celebrated in 2022. But even then it is clear that the bill is increasing and the costs and benefits are no longer keeping pace.
In addition, as a result of the new Environmental Act, which has been in force since January 1 of this year, (semi-)public buildings must meet high standards and must be made more sustainable. This also applies to Mosaqua. According to the mayor and aldermen, this will require an additional investment of at least five million euros, which would increase the deficit to eight thousand euros annually. Ten years ago, six million was invested in a major renovation.
The mayor and aldermen of Gulpen-Wittem have had enough. Next Thursday, April 25, the municipal council must decide on the controversial council proposal to close the swimming pool in a year and a half. Much to the sadness of many swimming enthusiasts and the management of Mosaqua.
Challenges
The problems at Mosaqua are not unique. On the contrary. “I know the challenges they face at Mosaqua. I don't think they differ from what we stand for, so in that sense I understand the discussion," says Tycho Knevel, commercial director of Sportfonds Nederland, which operates a total of about a hundred swimming pools throughout the country, including eight in Limburg. , namely in Heerlen, Venray, Geleen, Born, Roerdalen, Nederweert, Heythuysen and Panningen.
"But we were very surprised by the fact that the municipality of Gulpen wanted to close the pool," says Knevel. Because with more than 250,000 visitors annually, Gulpen scores very well. In fact, if you compare that to population, it would Knevel calculates that this means that every resident of Gulpen-Wittem buys a ticket fifteen times a year.
"That is of course not the case, because the swimming pool also has a great appeal to tourists and residents of the surrounding area. And so it really has a nice function in that part of Limburg, I think. Regardless of what it costs. In general, swimming pools with a large water surface and many recreational elements, such as a slide or rapids and the like, are often somewhat more expensive to operate. That is also the reason why a ticket costs more. But all in all, Mosaqua is known in our industry as one of the better visited baths."
Swimming pools are extremely important facilities, he emphasizes. "These are facilities where diverse target groups can exercise and exercise in an accessible way. Sportfonds was founded more than a hundred years ago to improve swimming safety in the Netherlands. We still stand for that."
But many swimming pools, especially public ones, are struggling to stay afloat. In recent decades, many have been closed or taken over by a foundation or association, where you must be a member to use the pool. Examples of this are Jekerdal in Maastricht and the Meerssen swimming pool. Other baths have been demolished or given a different purpose.
At age
“Many pools are old. They date from the 1970s and 1980s and are therefore forty to fifty years old. In that respect, a swimming pool works no differently than a private home. They no longer meet the requirements of today. Certainly not when it comes to energy use."
Quite a few municipalities are considering the question: are we going to renovate the current swimming pool or are we going to build a new one? The latter happens, for example, in Venlo and Roermond. “Energetically smart buildings were chosen, which are much more economical. But a lot of energy is still needed to heat the water and showers and to run the installations. A swimming pool is simply an energy-intensive business."
According to Knevel, the fact that the number of swimming pools is also decreasing nationally is also due to municipal reorganizations. “Look at Sittard-Geleen. That municipality suddenly had three swimming pools and was inclined to see whether this could not be solved more intelligently at a regional level."
According to swimindex.nl, Limburg currently has 59 public swimming pools: 21 indoor pools, 12 outdoor pools, 8 combination pools, 7 subtropical swimming pools, an outdoor water playground and ten wellness locations.
This also includes swimming paradises at holiday parks, such as Center Parcs Het Meerdal and Center Parcs Limburgse Peel in America, Landal De Lommerbergen in Reuver or Aqua Mundo Het Heijderbos in Heijen.
Almost all publicly accessible swimming pools are owned by municipalities, which often outsource their operation to companies such as Sportfonds, Optisport, Laco and SRO. Municipalities set a number of social preconditions (for example with regard to rates for associations and opening hours) and pay a fixed annual operating contribution for this. Due to the sharply increased operating costs of swimming pools, a higher contribution is often necessary.
School swimming
Another factor that should not be underestimated is the disappearance of mandatory school swimming. This was abolished in 1985 and since then schools have been allowed to decide for themselves whether they offer it. The result is that fewer and fewer schools do this. But a turnaround seems to be in sight. A majority in the House of Representatives is in favor of the reintroduction of school swimming. The outgoing cabinet must develop 'realistic scenarios' for this, according to a proposal submitted by SP and GroenLinks-PvdA.
The number of children without a swimming diploma is increasing. Also because swimming lessons are no longer affordable for a whole group of people. An A-diploma alone can easily cost seven hundred euros. Figures show that in families in the lowest income group, a quarter of children today do not have a swimming diploma. There are on average ten times more drownings among children with a migration background. An undesirable development, according to many MPs.
“There are some important things in that adopted motion. This includes the fact that a municipality must view a swimming pool as a utility and that a swimming pool may no longer be closed in order to balance its own budget. In addition, there will be an emergency fund for swimming pools that are having difficulty," says Mosaqua director Bertil Kaanen. "But the implementation of that motion is still pending while the closure of Mosaqua is rushed through as quickly as possible."
Kaanen is very outspoken. According to him, the report on which the municipality of Gulpen-Wittem is based is "a piece of work". The financial assumptions contained in it are based on quicksand. Last Thursday he presented a counter report, which lists all errors. He suspects that there are there is much more to the screens than just the financial story. "There are plans on the table for housing on the Mosaqua sunbathing lawn. The research report indicates that an exploration has already been done for housing construction ." The municipality strongly denies this.
The swimming pool may be thirty years old, but it was completely renovated ten years ago. So the five million restoration costs that are currently being discussed seem to Kaanen to be excessive. "The argument that Mosaqua has to invest a lot of money in energy measures is a piece of cake."
Area vision
Kaanen points out that the contract with the municipality would actually run for another twenty years. “But in 2020 the municipality suddenly wanted to sit down with us. They wanted to break the contract to have more freedom to draw up an area vision for the entire area. Negotiations about this took a year and a half, but in 2022 the municipality will again become full owner. We became tenants. We have strictly adhered to the agreements for two years. We even wrote black numbers. Until we were invited to the town hall on March 8 this year and were told: we have a problem. We can no longer afford the maintenance."
Kaanen remains 100 percent convinced that Mosaqua is viable. He clings to a joint amendment on which the council factions are working. The council is called upon to save the swimming pool by looking for co-financiers; for example, tourist companies such as campsites and bungalow parks in the area that have an interest in the continued existence of the swimming pool. Mosaqua must also be given the opportunity to put forward a business plan itself. "We are going to demonstrate that the swimming pool does not have to cost the municipality more than 250,000 euros per year. If it is purely a financial story, as the council claims, then the decision must be discarded."
According to Kaanen, there is a risk of a shortage of bathing water in South Limburg. "Soon you will no longer have an indoor swimming pool in the long line from Maastricht to Aachen. Yes, a small bath for guests of Landal in Vaals. But you cannot compare that with a public swimming pool where lessons are given. You are officially not even allowed to swim in such a small pool."
"That's comparing apples and oranges," says Winand Willigers, who is the director of three swimming pools: De Treffer in Eijsden, Hoensbroek swimming pool and Het Anker in Buchten. According to him, a swimming pool at a holiday park cannot in any way be compared with a full-fledged 25- or 50-meter pool. Moreover, a ticket for a day at Aqua Mundo, the tropical swimming paradise at Center Parcs, can easily cost twenty euros.
For everyone
Willigers: “We charge six euros per ticket. But if we had to pass on the cost price, I would arrive at double that amount. But we think it is important to keep the price of a ticket as low as possible, so that the swimming pool remains accessible to everyone." Willigers has also been confronted several times with the possible closure of a swimming pool. The future of the swimming pool in Buchten is under discussion. The municipality wants to turn it into a target group pool and transfer the operation to Sports Funds Netherlands, which could do it cheaper.
Willigers talks about a trend: municipalities are increasingly choosing to keep only one public swimming pool open. He cites Maastricht as an example, where the Sportfondsbad, De Dousberg, Heer swimming pool and Vijverdal swimming pool have disappeared and only one public swimming pool remains: De Geusselt. "You see the same thing happening in Sittard-Geleen. If it were up to the municipality, all recreationists would from now on go to Glanerbrook, which is currently being renovated."
According to Willigers, public swimming pools are almost never profitable. "Costs are always higher than income and have risen sharply in recent years, by more than 35 percent. This has to do with a number of factors, such as the 140 percent increase in energy prices. In addition, personnel costs have increased and we are dealing with inflation." The corona pandemic has also left major gaps in operations.
And then there are the required adjustments. “Then you are talking about more economical pumps and filter systems. In concrete terms, this means that we have to invest heavily in this in the short term. These costs are largely borne by the municipality. The political consideration that is then made is: what does the swimming pool cost per inhabitant and is it still worth it to us? It is often said that we have all become richer in recent decades. I see that a bit differently. When I look at the level of facilities, we have only deteriorated in recent years."
In the meantime, Gulpen is looking askance at the other Heuvelland municipalities for help. If Mosaqua is a supra-regional facility, why wouldn't they help pay for keeping the pool open? But the willingness to do so is lacking. Municipalities are thinking twice before investing money again in something that is increasingly looking like a bottomless pit. The Primosa debacle has not yet been forgotten, with the very expensive glass pyramid at the foot of the Gulpenerberg as a tangible reminder of the money-consuming project.
Many baths are old. They date from the 1970s and 1980s and are therefore forty to fifty years old.
Tycho Knevel, commercial director of Sports Funds Netherlands
The argument that Mosaqua must invest a lot of money in energy measures is a piece of cake.
Bertil Kaanen, director of Mosaqua
a
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document

Load Date: April 19, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")