Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Construction plans burned down hotel
The Gelderlander
December 18, 2023 Monday


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 447 words
Byline: MARGRIET VERSCHOOR
Highlight: Expensive homes may still be built on the site of the burned down Plasmolen hotel. At least, if it is up to Nijmegen developer Ton Hendriks.
Body


Developer Ton Hendriks wants to build homes on the Hotel Plasmolen site
Margriet Verschoor

Pee mill

It is a well-known place in Plasmolen, near a pond overlooking the moraine and just south of the Rijksweg. Until 2001, the famous Hotel Plasmolen stood here, which then burned down. The site has been vacant since then, but construction plans have been in the works for some time.

A chic apartment complex is planned, with fifteen apartments and twelve semi-detached houses. Everything in the more expensive segment.

The council of Mook and Middelaar already agreed to these plans in 2018, on the condition that catering facilities would be added. That turned out to be a difficult point. An operator was difficult to find and local residents feared inconvenience. The municipality decided to drop the condition in 2020, but then another problem arose almost immediately: the nitrogen crisis.

Even more delays, councilor Ton Herings confirms: "The plan area is close to the Sint-Jansberg nature reserve, which is a Natura 2000 area. The location close to nature in combination with the nitrogen problems has indeed slowed things down further." Research shows that a significantly higher precipitation of nitrogen is expected due to the construction plans. This also applies to the De Bruuk and Oeffelter Meent nature reserves.

Everything has been tried to find a solution, as the documents show. For example, the canceled catering function was deducted from the expected nitrogen emissions in calculations, and the initiator's external nitrogen rights were also taken into account.

Ultimately, the plan was registered for the provincial nitrogen registration system of the province of Limburg. This fund offers 'nitrogen space for initiatives with a social interest'. In principle, this includes the construction of homes that are necessary 'according to applicable housing policy'. However, the province still has to assess and approve this.

The fact that the plan is already being put forward is due to new legislation that will apply from January. Councilor Herings: "If the developer does not make the request now, it will soon have to comply with the Environmental Act and the requirements of the Housing Deal, such as 30 percent social rent, and that is not exactly what is included in this plan. Then this is off the table."

If the province does not want to add it to the nitrogen registration system, the construction plan will end anyway and it will no longer go to the municipal council. However, when asked, developer Ton Hendriks is positive about the province's decision. As far as he is concerned, the houses and apartments will simply be built.
The plan area is close to the Sint-jansberg nature reserve, which is a Natura 2000 area

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: December 17, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")