Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Swarm democracy must attract young people to politics
The Limburger
September 18, 2021 Saturday
entire editionVenloVenrayRoermondWTMaastrichtSittard-GeleenHeerlenKL


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 45, 44
Length: 861 words
Byline: Joos Philippens Photos Getty Images
Body


Swarm democracy is a trendy concept among experts. They argue that the current government is too slow and cannot keep up with the pace of the times. Groups of citizens can do this much better, by 'swarming'. "The system is not bankrupt, but needs to be improved."
Ferenc van Damme, a Zwolle innovator and strategist, impressed a packed room of residents and councilors in Maastricht a year and a half ago. Swarm democracy should be the future, he stated. Groups of citizens who, like a flock of birds, rush into a problem in a short time, solve it and disappear again.
Van Damme and other vanguard players indicate that the government cannot keep up, is lagging behind the facts, and is getting bogged down in bureaucracy that is not understood by the citizen.
The result: in many municipalities, only half of the residents vote in local elections. Is there still a functioning democracy? The government is trying to win back the residents, but it is mainly the elderly who attend consultation meetings. People who are active in neighborhood platforms year in, year out. The innovators - with all due respect - think much of the same thing, it is not getting along. Where are the young people? They live in a completely different world. They are happy to dedicate themselves wholeheartedly to a project, but for a maximum of one year. Achieve results, then move on to another challenge.
Civil servants still decide from behind their desks what is good and what is not, politics is losing control. "The system is not bankrupt, but needs to be improved," says Engbert Breuker of 'change agency' Pentascope. "When I grew up in the 1970s, four percent of Dutch people had a scientific title, now that is forty percent. Take advantage of the knowledge of all those millions of Dutch people."
Citizen businesses
Henk Willem Tiktak's bookcase prominently features the trendsetting Revolution by Russell Brand. It envisions a world of autonomous, small communities. No more multinationals, but groups that arrange energy and food themselves. Tiktak puts this into practice, setting up area cooperatives: businesses owned by citizens. The empowered and active residents who found such a cooperative immediately make themselves less dependent on local politics. “Citizens now often complain out of their own interests. Citizen initiatives serve a broader interest and can generate so much power that a government has to do something with them."
The climate problem, expensive gasoline, corona, exploding house prices require drastic change, Tiktak signals. “Groups of citizens can create extra value, work smarter and cheaper. Motivate the health insurer to invest in healthy soil, then you limit healthcare costs." Or take the wind turbines or solar parks that the central government makes mandatory in every region, including in the scenically beautiful Heuvelland. "If such an area cooperative installs them , you have more support and the money stays in the region. Isn't that better than doing business with such an energy giant? You share knowledge instead of selling it for a lot of money."
According to Tiktak, the time is ripe for this, because the often criticized government is indeed taking action. In 2024, it will replace no fewer than 26 laws with one new Environmental Act. The operation is so comprehensive that it remains a vague concept for most, causing officials to become stressed. Strategist Van Damme analyzes that citizens can derive great rights from the new law if they approach it smartly. “From now on, the government must take citizens as seriously as project developers. The benefits are obvious." There are plenty of examples where citizens can take control, says Engbert Breuker. Construction, energy, but also local quality of life. "I know a Groningen village where the baker stopped. A foundation took over the bakery and operates it as a work-study company." Don't complain and sit back, but improve the world, starting with yourself. Tiktak: “Taking responsibility together is just fun. Show us: government, you can leave this to us."
Table democracy
Such an 'area company' seems to be difficult to tolerate with swarm democracy, with citizens always dropping out after a short time. Tiktak therefore wants to structure swarming more. “Swarm projects are fine, but once completed, hand them over to an area cooperative. This is how you offer continuity. The government does not want projects that no one will care about anymore." Engbert Breuker 'connects living worlds together'. "You can swarm by working together with the government, or as an independent action group. It is both possible. My goal: I want getting as many people as possible to work together.” In short: getting people to the table. This 'table democracy' of committed citizens is an alternative to party politics. As far as Breuker is concerned, it may even lead to a new parliament. A Third Chamber of active citizens who devise laws themselves and test society for sustainability. Expansion of politics? It sounds a bit contradictory and proves one thing: citizen participation and swarm democracy are still developing.
F
"
PDF file of this document
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 17, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")