Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Land van Cuijk should have put on the brakes with Dommelsvoort'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
February 2, 2024 Friday 08:01 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 504 words
Byline: Dennis Greijn
Body


It would have been 'even wiser' if the municipality of Land van Cuijk itself had decided to apply the brakes, and not TopParken, the developer of the Dommelsvoort holiday park on the Kraaijenbergse Plassen between Beers and Linden.
That's what Friends of the Groene Kraaij says. This interest group has been campaigning for some time against the arrival of a large-scale bungalow park along the A73 near Cuijk. She has already collected 800 signatures in Beers and Linden, from people who are against a mega holiday park in nature.
The foundation, which stands up for peace and nature in the lake area, created by decades of sand extraction, says it is 'pleased' to have taken note of TopParken's statement last week to postpone plans for a recreational park for the time being. with 550 holiday homes, restaurants and a marina, good for 400 berths.
“We agree with the municipality's 'sensible' qualification,” said Friends of the Groene Kraaij, which includes many water sports enthusiasts who are active on the Kraaijenbergse Plassen. 'However, with one caveat: it would have been wiser if the municipality had taken this decision to reconsider and not left it up to TopParken.'
The municipality said last week that it was looking forward with interest to 'TopParken's interim step' with the development of Dommelsvoort. But now, according to councilor Maarten Jilisen, it is up to TopParken how to proceed.
12 million euros
Years ago, the former municipality of Cuijk released 12 million euros in preparation costs for the arrival of a large water park near Cuijk.
The introduction of the national environmental law last January 1 partly ensures that operator TopParken from Lunteren opts for this 'intermediate step'. The new law gives citizens more say in plans in their neighborhood. But many critical reactions from village councils, local residents and users of the lakes on (the size of) the project and current market conditions also play a role in the reconsideration.
Friends of the Groene Kraaij believes that, although TopParken adjusted the plans last year from a maximum of 700 to 550 holiday homes, there is still 'a megalomaniac water park, with enormous second homes for the wealthy'.
'Real alternatives': housing
The 'green' foundation suggested last year that it should work on 'real alternatives'. Other plans for the Dommelsvoort area, which 'benefit the local residents and users'. Such as TopParken's statement last week to pause for the time being. In addition, the N321 provincial road would have to be partly rerouted. According to the Friends, there is a need for affordable housing in times of housing shortage. And according to them, nature in Dommelsvoort itself is also being spared.
TopParken, the new developer of the proposed holiday park since 2020, will present an amended plan before the summer. A harmonious integration of the plan, now covering more than 70 hectares, into the landscape is being considered.

Load Date: April 17, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")