Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='Have a say in the future of Goeree', which direction is the island heading?
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 20, 2023 Wednesday 05:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 603 words
Byline: Gert Onnink
Body


What will Goeree-Overflakkee look like in the future? The municipality will draw up a so-called environmental vision on this next year. Residents and companies on the island are asked to actively think and discuss.
Where will the island with almost 52,000 inhabitants go in the coming years? Will there be more homes (currently 22,000) or will it be decided to slow down further house construction? Are additional measures needed for traffic or will the infrastructure be curtailed? Is it opted for a boost for the economy and recreation sector or is it more towards sustainability and the preservation of the scarce nature that the municipality has?
It is these questions that the board and residents of Goeree-Overflakkee will have to answer in the new year. This list of tasks, which are summarized under the heading 'physical living environment', will soon be included in the new environmental vision. This will soon give a dot on the horizon (the year 2050), with an intermediate step in 2035.
The environmental law will come into effect everywhere in the Netherlands on 1 January 2024. This new regulation obliges municipalities to draw up an environmental vision together with residents, entrepreneurs and other parties. The latest deadline for this is the year 2027, Goeree-Overflakkee is well on time with the currently ongoing process.
The nationally applicable environmental law, the introduction of which has been considerably delayed, should help to merge and simplify the many rules in the Netherlands in the areas of nature, the environment, building and housing.
'Join the conversation'
Goereese councilor Daan Markwat (spatial, housing and environment, SGP) points out the great importance of the new law and the resulting vision. “The environmental vision is really very important. It describes the future of Goeree-Overflakkee. It provides direction and helps in making important choices for the island in the field of our living, working and living environment."
He hopes that many residents, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders will provide their input in the coming months. "That's why I invite everyone: talk and think about the future of Goeree-Overflakkee."
Participation
The municipal council will start holding participation meetings about the environmental vision in February or March. Online resources are also used to gauge opinions everywhere, such as surveys on the participation platform www.praatmee.goeree-overflakkee.nl.
Goeree-Overflakkee, which has been working on the plans since May, has already taken steps to achieve the new vision for the future. After a so-called task note, in which the first sketches have been made, the participation phase follows: collecting ideas, reactions and opinions from residents, entrepreneurs and involved parties. This should lead to the preparation of a vision document.
Local council
According to the municipality, the intention is to complete the Goeree-Overflakkee environmental vision at the end of 2024 or early 2025. The municipal council still has to make a decision on this, but last week the council already agreed to actively involve residents and companies in the course of events.
More information about the environmental vision and law can be found on the participation platform https://bit.ly/praatmeeovergoereeoverflakkee.
Follow AD Rotterdams Dagblad now via WhatsApp! Tip: turn on the notifications at the top right for the latest news. Knowing more? Read all about WhatsApp Channels and how to use them here.
Comment? Letters can be sent to our readers' editors, with first, last name and address (the latter not for publication). A reader letter is a maximum of 150 words and can be shortened. We do not post anonymous letters.

Load Date: December 20, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")