Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Brabant wants more money from the government: It's going to crack
The Gelderlander
April 7, 2023 Friday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 1
Length: 364 words
Highlight: More and more overdue maintenance at schools, sports halls, streets or green areas. No more money for much-needed investments. Brabant structurally needs more money from the government. Municipalities and provinces gave this signal on Wednesday.
Body


School, sports hall and street are in danger of becoming dilapidated
Pim Dikkers

Den Bosch

Local authorities are currently still supported by all kinds of incidental government contributions. This makes it seem like things are going well, but that is unjustified, say the Brabant municipalities. to Minister Hanke Bruins Slot (Home Affairs).,,The budgets are still balanced, but municipalities have to make decisions year after year that are becoming increasingly irresponsible. That's going to crack. The overdue maintenance continues to pile up," says deputy Stijn Smeulders.
Ravine year
The financial pressure will only increase in the coming years, they expect in Brabant. The low point will be 2026, what the municipalities themselves call the 'ravine year'. From then on, the government wants to implement the financing of all tasks that it has delegated to the municipalities 'differently'. How? That is still unclear.

And that is exactly what the municipalities are now facing. The government requires them to budget years in advance and is obliged to realistically take uncertainties into account. The greatest uncertainty is now caused by 'The Hague', according to the Brabant municipalities. An increasing number of municipalities are already having difficulty keeping their housekeeping accounts balanced, according to the province's own research and the Association of Brabant Municipalities (VBG).

It is mainly new tasks that cause financial headaches for municipalities. This concerns, for example, the reception of Ukrainian refugees and the introduction of the new Environmental Act. According to the municipalities, structural contributions from the government are necessary to keep their heads above water.
Local amenities
"If this does not happen, half of the municipalities will no longer be able to establish a balanced budget from 2026," says VBG chairman Marieke Moorman, also mayor of Land van Cuijk. That would mean even more cuts with all the (possible) consequences of serve for the local level of facilities. Moorman: "The last thing you want is to cut visible things. But that is what is already happening."
You don't want to cut into visible things. But that does happen

View the original page: page 1

Load Date: April 6, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")