Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Brainstorm about rural areas
The Limburger
October 4, 2018 Thursday
Roermond


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 2
Length: 511 words
Byline: BY PIETERNEL KELLENAERS
Body


 BACKGROUND ENVIRONMENTAL VISION
NEDERWEERT
Nederweert is using the new Environmental Act to enter into discussions with residents about the future of the rural area.
Partly thanks to a flashy video by councilor Frank Voss, more than a hundred participants registered for the first brainstorming session on the rural area on Tuesday evening.
The reason for the extensive dialogue with residents about the future of the countryside in Nederweert is the introduction of the Environmental Act in 2021. The law that must come into force on January 1, 2021, makes 26 current laws redundant and shifts control from central to local. In addition, the number of regulations will be limited from 340 to 14 and the number of articles of law from 5,000 to 350. "More compact but not easier," explains municipal project leader Rianne Bongers. "We now check off all the rules when applying for a permit and the permit is issued. provided everything is met.
Dialogue will soon be central and the interests of residents will have to be weighed against each other."
 Sustainability
The new council of Nederweert attaches great importance to sustainability and in the crowded Village Hostel in Ospel, opinions about this quickly become heated. With 200 livestock animals per inhabitant, the pressure from the agricultural sector in Nederweert is enormous, says Cor de Nijs on behalf of the Limburg Gezond core group. "The farmers are well organized and fortunately this also applies to the citizens who are opposed to all stench, particulate matter and ammonia." It should be noted that mutual discussions about this lead to mutual respect.
Thanks to the Buitengebied in Balans, which was started five years ago, farmers and citizens in Nederweert have been sitting around the table together for some time. "What we have considered normal for years is still new for many other sectors," says poultry farmer and fire chief Henk Stals. "We have roofs full of solar panels and we have been working with people at a distance from the labor market for 17 years."
 Mood board sessions
By collecting ideas on themes such as area development, earning capacity, climate change and a healthy living environment, a start has been made on the formation of the Environmental Act for Nederweert.
Later this month or early next month, so-called mood board sessions will follow in which participants will look at the countryside in a creative way under the guidance of artist Rob Benders from Regentag.
This is followed by in-depth sessions in which a theme is discussed in small groups. Bongers: All with the aim of having a framework ready at the beginning of 2019 that the council and municipal council can continue with. An outline vision that deals with the future of the countryside area by area. People can always participate and join in, but it remains difficult for us to reach young people in particular."
Residents of Nederweert can submit ideas or find information via the website www.nederweert.nl/Omgevingsvisie.
 The Environmental Act must make 26 existing laws redundant and shift control from central to local.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: October 4, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")