Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=LETTERS | When considering housing, also consider your own residents
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 7, 2024 Sunday 10:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 869 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


Our editorial staff receives several readers' letters every week. Below is a selection of reader letters submitted in the past week. Would you also like to respond? As a reader you can send a letter of maximum 200 words to mening@bndestem.nl
Housing
It is very sad that Iranian student Nill Kivousi has not had housing in the Netherlands for five months (see newspaper December 27). But what about the Dutch student, how long does he or she have to wait for an affordable room or good housing? How often do they fish behind the net? And what about young people who want to build a future and buy an affordable house. In Oosterhout the city council is arguing about who they should build for now. If you want to keep young people here in education, healthcare and the like, it seems logical to me to think about these young families. Boards must show that they are also there for their own residents. This is the only way to prevent the PVV from expanding by 50 seats in the future.
Gonny van der Meel,
Oosterhout
Washing water
The rivers must be given space and overflow areas are now being created. In the 1950s the teacher told us that the rivers had summer and winter dikes to protect the surrounding land. Cows grazed in the meadows between the summer and winter dikes (flood plains) in the summer and in the winter the summer dikes were flooded by the high water. People already understood that then. In a number of places the flood plains were later built up with houses and there were problems with the rising water. Holiday parks have also been built there, but hardly anything has been learned from the past. Unfortunately, there is insufficient space to build houses in this flat, low land.
Rien Ros,
Etten-Leur
Energy price ceiling
Outgoing Minister of Finance Rob Jetten has 19 billion euros left over from the 2023 energy price ceiling. That is enough to provide almost 4 million households, almost half of the total number, with nine solar panels. This saves 4 billion kilos of CO2 emissions, approximately 1,200 euros per year for households, and improves social security.
Gerard van der Linden,
Low Zwaluwe
No cure no pay
Good intentions are not that complicated to formulate. BN DeStem will help you get started with articles about objections to the property tax assessment and predicted chaos following the introduction of the environmental law. First an explanation of who the first parties involved are. You guessed it, you and I are the citizens of the municipalities in the Netherlands. The implementers of the schemes are our civil servants, again you and I. What to think of the bullying behavior of agencies that see a revenue model in objection procedures for the property tax assessment! A good intention for 2024 is to omit this and offer help with applying for the environmental permit. No cure, no pay is then not necessary because it is a permitted service. Also realize that the collection of municipal taxes is not for the state treasury but for your own street. Look before you leap!
Sjaak van Schie, CDA citizen councilor
Drimmel
Below the photo: inflammatory texts
Incitement
To my great annoyance, I follow the messages of various journalists, including Hans van Soest. The inflammatory language and leading questions are causing more and more unrest in our country and our city. This is incitement to violence. A journalist should know that words matter. And certainly also written text.
Tiny Pains,
Breda
Police
And yet another newspaper with 'jerking' police officers. Am I to think that in the event of riots and abuses the police are the appropriate agency to take action? But they apparently wait until outgoing Prime Minister Mark Rutte himself takes to the barricades. . or later Dilan, Pieter or Caroline? Or is this a hint that things will continue like this next year?
C. van Eekelen,
Maggot
Own risk
Minister of Health Ernst Kuipers is against the abolition of the deductible in healthcare, as the vast majority of the House of Representatives wants. According to Kuipers, the deductible contributes to the cost awareness of policyholders, causing people to think longer about whether a proposed treatment is appropriate. The reality is that people do not go to the doctor because they are afraid of a referral because of the deductible that they cannot pay. Moreover, when people come to the doctor too late with complaints, the treatment often becomes more expensive. But non-urgent care is via a referral from the GP, so he can assess whether further care is necessary. The argument that healthy people pay more is correct, but that used to be called solidarity. Is it fair if chronically ill people already lose their deductible in January? We must move towards a supportive, easily accessible healthcare system that is equally expensive for everyone. We once had such a system, it was called 'the health insurance fund'. Let the abolition of the deductible be a prelude to the reintroduction of the health insurance fund.
Martin van Nispen,
Rijsbergen
Readers can send their submitted letter to meningen@bndestem.nl. Contributions may be a maximum of 200 words. All contributions must include name and place of residence. The editors have the right to shorten submissions.

Load Date: January 11, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")