Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=LETTERS | Finally recognition for people with long covid
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 14, 2024 Sunday 10:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 919 words
Byline: Editorial
Body


Our editorial staff receives several readers' letters every week. Below is a selection of reader letters submitted in the past week. Would you also like to respond? As a reader you can send a letter of maximum 200 words to mening@bndestem.nl
Long Covid
Last week a lot was published in the newspaper about the new developments regarding long covid. Finally confirmation that I have not been thinking since 2021 that I feel ill after two corona infections. Sent from pillar to post by doctors, except for a few specialists at the Bravis hospital and the acupuncture therapist. The frustration, which causes a lot of stress because you don't know what is wrong with you, makes your complaints even worse. And the worst thing is that those around you don't believe you, social contacts disappear, I just retired and had to give up volunteer work, in short, my whole life turned 180 degrees. Hopefully doctors, who have not recognized all my complaints, will now think differently and more research will be done. And will the government finally tackle this seriously and make money available for this?
Ineke de Ridder,
Heijningen
Trees Flax Bag
The newspaper of January 4 states that according to the municipality of Breda, 25 trees on the Vlaszak will be demolished this year due to redevelopment. There will be 31 new trees in return. Wherever the municipality of Breda removes trees, young trees are returned as compensation. Research at the University of Leuven shows that this 'saving measure' no longer makes sense. The positive (health) effects of old trees on the living environment have been seriously underestimated, and city planners should take this into account, according to the research. An old tree with a full crown is worth more than 10 young trees, they have positive effects on breathing, heart and blood vessels and sleep, among other things. According to professor Raf Aerts, 'it is often decided to cut down an old tree that is in the way. But the positive effects of such a developed tree, also on humans, are clearly greater than expected'. So congregation, 'look before you leap'.
Jack Bakkers,
Breda
Residential construction
The article of December 21 in BN DeStem states that the municipality of Roosendaal, together with Alwel, BVR and
Four-D wants to make the Westrand future-proof, more liveable, safer and greener. What do they mean by this? Build up the district? On November 28, new construction plans for Permekeplein, the Liebau and BDO location were presented during an information evening. It was said that this will not be achieved in the first five years. But the article in question states that steps will be taken quickly after the introduction of the Environmental Act on January 1. The housing shortage is clear and building in these locations makes sense. But build a residential tower of 45 meters (15 floors) on the corner of Jan Vermeerlaan/Burg. Freijterslaan is quite something. This deprives the residents of the streets behind them of all sunlight in the mid-afternoon in winter. This also has financial consequences for houses with solar panels. There is also greening in this environment. With more buildings? The green part next to Liebau, from the traffic lights to the roundabout, will disappear. Finally, it all becomes more livable and safer. You don't do this with buildings. You do this with people.
Toon Bogers,
Roosendaal
Traffic nuisance
I have been living in an apartment, 8 floors, on Graaf Hendrik III laan in Breda for years. People drive far too fast on this road with separate lanes. After the speed camera between the Shell station and towards Graaf Engelbertlaan and Mastbos, we hit the gas. Also towards the center, near our residential tower, people do not adhere to the speed limit at all. One of our residents was hit at the zebra crossing a few years ago. I have been in contact with the municipality about this for a few years. The reactions are slow, people are working on a plan for this road, which is a reaction. But enforcement here is apparently an unprecedented luxury. It just doesn't happen. A maximum speed of thirty kilometers per hour would be a luxury, but I don't see enforcement of this happening yet. Unfortunately, there is a tendency for clumsy and reckless driving to become increasingly common.
B. Theunissen,
Breda
Registration
I read and hear with horror about the unprecedented attack on aid workers by antisocial ringleaders. Having no understanding of the situation at all, these people are hindered in their work by them. Please note: if a close family member is in need of help, they will certainly not strike. To put a stop to this, a mandatory prison sentence will not be sufficient, with all its consequences. There is one option: let these troublemakers work with emergency responders during a serious (traffic) accident. Police, fire brigade, first aid, hospital, burn center, crematorium, and so on. There they witness the suffering inflicted on victims and are confronted with the consequences. Only then will they also become so nauseous that they cannot keep their meal down. They must also all be registered nationally and when they need help themselves, they must be ignored. 'A taste of your own medicine.' I am convinced that this will reduce the number of victims to 0.
Rien Rullens,
Breda
Readers can send their submitted letter to meningen@bndestem.nl. Contributions may be a maximum of 200 words. All contributions must include name and place of residence. The editors have the right to shorten submissions.

Load Date: January 16, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")