Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Bronckhorst must reduce the deficit within six months
The Gelderlander
July 15, 2019 Monday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk Edition


Copyright 2019 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 15
Length: 390 words
Byline: RICK AALBERS
Highlight: The municipality of Bronckhorst sees a shortage of millions looming. Without interventions, the municipality will be more than 2.6 million euros in the red at the end of this year. Citizens will not notice anything this year, promises Alderman Willem Buunk. "There will be no cuts in subsidies and we will not mow less," he says.
Body


Municipality feels a decline in the number of residents in its wallet
The reason for the sharply increasing deficit is that Bronckhorst receives less money from the municipal fund.

An important reason for this is that fewer and fewer people live in Bronckhorst. And if there are fewer residents in a municipality, it will receive less money from the government.

Bronckhorst is the fastest shrinking municipality in the Achterhoek: when the new municipality was reorganized in 2005, it had more than 37,500 inhabitants, which is now just over 36,000.

Partly because of this, Bronckhorst will receive 560,000 euros less from the municipal fund this year. This benefit will then decrease every year, increasing to 825,000 euros in 2023. Because the municipality structurally receives less money, Alderman Buunk does not rule out that citizens will feel pain from this in the coming years.

That is certainly not the case this year, says the alderman. He is now mainly looking for savings in cutting back on projects. The introduction of the new Environmental Act is an example of this. "Do we really think we can spend all the money in the budget for this, or can it be done a little less," says the councilor. "And there are a few more projects with which we can save several hundred thousand euros together. "

The setback of the lower payment from the municipal fund comes on top of the current shortages in waste processing (1 million euros) and care and welfare (also more than 1 million), mainly caused by higher costs for youth care. To partly cover these youth care costs, Bronckhorst will receive a contribution from the government: 560,00 euros this year and 420,000 euros in both 2020 and 2021.

Although Alderman Buunk is happy with this, he emphasizes that it is still far from enough to cover all costs. "We must continue to pay close attention to trying to work within the available budgets," says Buunk, who is counting on more money for youth care from the government to continue to come to Bronckhorst after 2021. "But that is Not sure yet, and we don't know yet when that will be announced."

The deficit that Bronckhorst still has at the end of the year is supplemented from the general reserve, i.e. the municipality's piggy bank. That contains almost 50 million euros.
We must continue to pay close attention to ensuring that we meet the budgets

View the original page: page 15

Load Date: July 14, 2019, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")