Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=OUTSIDE AREA Province wants cooperation in monitoring compliance with rules - 'Improve enforcement'
The Gelderlander
June 21, 2010 Monday
Maasland Edition


Copyright 2010 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: ML
Length: 319 words
Body


RESUME
The province wants more cooperation with municipalities and agencies in enforcing rules and laws. After the test is successful, the idea must be spread across the entire province. In the spring memorandum, GS has allocated 6 tons for projects.
COMPLETE TEXT:
DEN BOSCH - The provincial government (GS) wants to concretely collaborate with other supervisors and law enforcement officers, such as the police, the judiciary, municipalities and water boards, in the entire rural area of ​​Brabant in enforcing laws and regulations. This follows on from the successful project 'Together strong in the countryside', which is taking place in South-east Brabant, according to outgoing VVD deputy Cora van Nieuwenhuizen.
 In anticipation of the formation of regional enforcement services, which may take several years, GS is allocating an additional 600,000 euros in the spring memorandum to also start this project in the other Brabant regions. The board is thus following a motion by VVD and D66, which was rejected by the Provincial Council just a week ago. Van Nieuwenhuizen expects that a majority will still agree to this part of the spring memorandum on July 9.
 "In Zuidoost, a large network has been built up of supervisors in the countryside who inform each other and warn each other if something is going on. This has worked very well here, for example, in tackling the hunting of birds of prey. Previously, these people were only concerned with their own specialist task." According to Van Nieuwenhuizen, it would be a shame if action was not taken in other regions as well. "There is a danger that the discussion about the desired enforcement structure under the new environmental law Wabo, which will come into effect on October 1, will have a paralyzing effect on implementation. This is precisely so important for citizens' confidence in the government, especially when it comes to protecting the environment. , nature and landscape."
 - Continued on page 12:
 'Tackling a minor violation'

Load Date: June 21, 2010, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")