Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Neighbors continue to block construction of 24 apartments
The Limburger
January 9, 2024 Tuesday
Roermond|Weert


Copyright 2024 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: ENVIRONMENTAL LAW; Page 4
Length: 338 words
Body


Four neighbors of two new residential complexes on Harrie Carisstraat in Nederweert continue to protest against the construction, although they have so far lost all legal proceedings.
Although national politics calls for municipalities to 'build, build, build', it is not that easy in practice. In Nederweert, 24 apartments have been built for 3.5 years on the corners of Harrie Carisstraat and Mgr. Kreijelmansstraat has been stopped because the municipality, housing association Woonik and the neighbors cannot reach an agreement. The Council of State dismissed the four neighbors' objections to the zoning plan change in October 2022, but the protests are now focusing on the environmental permit granted.
Annoyance
These are two pieces of land where two three-storey residential complexes will be built with 12 apartments each. They will be about as high as the homes of the protesting neighbors. Although all kinds of adjustments have already been made by the Woonik housing association, the neighbors remain critical, as became apparent recently during a meeting of the objections committee. There will be too few parking spaces for all the people who will soon live there; an argument that they had also presented to the Council of State, but which, to their annoyance, was not listened to. It is tight on site for cars if they have to be parked in the street, also considering the bakery around the corner.
Living pleasure
Furthermore, the neighbors have seen that the apartments fall just outside the building block. For that reason alone, the municipality should not have issued an environmental permit to Woonik. The enjoyment of living is also affected, nuisance, such as waste containers, has not been taken into account in "any way" and the walkway from the parking lot to the apartment complex will soon be right next to one of the plots of the protesting neighbors.
 Woonik is no longer waiting for the outcome of this new objection procedure. The tender for the 24 homes has started, director Paul Sebregts said.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 8, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")