Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Mayors demand more money from the government
The Gelderlander
September 14, 2020 Monday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: General; Page 6
Length: 453 words
Byline: DAVID BREMMER
Highlight: The mayors of the Netherlands are angry. They want more money and for the relationship with the government to be more equal. Mayor Jan van Zanen of The Hague: "We are getting sick of this fighting over money."
Body


Since youth care, care for the long-term ill and people at a distance from the labor market were transferred to municipalities in 2015, villages and cities have had to make millions of cuts. And the new Environmental Act, the Integration Act and debt assistance, among other things, also cost the municipalities a lot of money. With the corona crisis, the municipalities can no longer cope.

"From small to large, municipalities everywhere have had to make millions of cuts in recent years and facilities such as the swimming pool, the library and community centers are under pressure," says Mayor Paul Depla of Breda. As a result, property taxes are in danger of rising sharply in many places, virtually the only button that municipalities can turn. 175 mayors are now sounding the alarm: the relationship between municipalities and the government must be reformed.

Van Zanen speaks on behalf of the G4; Koos Janssen (Zeist) for the M50, fifty medium-sized municipalities, and Ellen van Selm (Opsterland) on behalf of the P10, 22 rural municipalities, which are also supported by sixty other rural municipalities. Depla is chairman of the G40 metropolitan association.

The need is high. "In Breda we have to wipe out 25 million euros from a budget of 600 million," says Depla. In Zeist it is 10 million euros, says Janssen. "All the frills are long gone for us." In total, the more than 350 municipalities are at risk of losing a billion euros this year, estimates Van Zanen, also chairman of the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG), on top of the structural deficit of 2 to 3 billion euros.

It is not that the government is not doing anything. Municipalities will receive more than 775 million euros to close the holes left in their budgets by the corona crisis. In addition, the offending scale-up discount - municipalities are subject to significant cuts after a reorganization - has been frozen. Van Selm: "The problem is that everything is incidental."

The mayors propose setting up a financial institute that looks independently at municipalities. To restore the balance, billions are needed on a structural basis. Simply organizing the 32 billion euro Municipal Fund differently, as the government wants - cities will then receive more money at the expense of small municipalities - is insufficient.

The plea transcends political walls, according to the mayors. Van Zanen is a VVD member, Depla belongs to the PvdA, Janssen is a CDA member and Van Selm is a member of D66. Van Zanen: “Municipalities are the first layer of government that citizens have to deal with. We are combating the corona crisis with our GGD. The people are at our counters. That is why we say to the cabinet: ensure new administrative and financial relationships."
We are the first layer of government that citizens have to deal with

View the original page: page 6

Load Date: September 13, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")