Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Citizen participation
The Limburger
January 25, 2021 Monday
Maastricht


Copyright 2021 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: SUBMITTED; letters; Page 5
Length: 319 words
Byline: Nic Pepels
Maastricht
Body


The Limmel Neighborhood Network wants a greater role in consultation with the municipality regarding developments in the neighborhood. That should not be a question, it is simply a (main) obligation to apply citizen participation in the new Environmental Act, which unfortunately comes into effect a year later. But also unfortunately with the caveat that 'our' Environmental Act has not chosen to anchor this legally, as is the case in France, Denmark and Spain, among others. Italy, even in the US has happened. So we're already starting with quite a backlog.
Moreover, a Neighborhood Network has a different design/position than the former neighborhood platforms and things can turn out very differently for citizens in the event of a 'poorly' functioning Neighborhood Network.
Above I would like to point out, in my opinion, incorrect reasoning for significantly reducing (freight) traffic on the Borgharenweg and Willem Alexanderweg.
The fleet of municipal companies, Arriva buses and traffic from Borgharen, towards the center and Noorderbrug, must be able to use the Borgharenweg. And precisely, that part of the Willem Alexanderweg where the new district will be built should continue to function as a district access road.
It is and remains a fairy tale that Limmel aan de Maas is not possible as an idyllic spot with a view of the Maas (it is even partly located on the Juliana Canal). By the way, I have already clearly indicated on several occasions (including in the Environmental Vision and even ten years ago) that a P&R location here would mean the end of the P&R Station Noord. The connections to the Noorderbrug are miserable and absolutely cannot handle this traffic pressure.
An on-site solar park would have been a visual disaster, just place those panels on roofs and on possible commercial buildings that can be built adjacent to the Noorderbrug.
Enforce 'real' Citizen Participation.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: January 24, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")