Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The Blerick neighborhood is adamantly against the arrival of 800 migrant workers, but a permit will be issued anyway
The Limburger
June 13, 2022 Monday
Venlo|Venray


Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Limburg BV / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: Page. 4
Length: 539 words
Byline: Kitty Borghouts
Body


The neighborhood is against it and believes that it has not been heard enough about the plan to house 800 migrant workers on the Venrayseweg in Blerick. But B and W want to issue the permit.
They have been diametrically opposed to each other for months: KaFra Housing, initiator of a park with 200 chalets for up to 800 migrant workers on the Venrayseweg and local residents. They no longer talk to each other. The neighborhood's last hope was that no permit would be issued due to lack of consultation. But that wish is not fulfilled: the Municipal Executive wants to issue the permit, according to a proposal that the municipal council may consider this month.
Venlo has asked the initiator to enter into discussions with the neighborhood in order to create maximum support. This is called conducting an 'environmental dialogue'. In anticipation of the introduction of the new Environmental Act, Venlo is now asking permit applicants to conduct such a dialogue. The point, however, is that there are no regulations as to what form this should take.
There have been a number of 'consultation moments', the council notes. "But this has not led to support for the plans." The neighborhood recently sent letters to the municipality in the hope that it would oblige KaFra to listen to the neighborhood's objections. But the municipality does not and cannot do that: the fact that local residents are not satisfied with the way the environmental dialogue has been conducted does not mean that the permit application cannot be processed. In fact, the municipality must complete that application within set deadlines. Once the permit has been granted, local residents can submit substantive objections.
Short stay
The permit application states that the park with 200 chalets for a maximum of four people meets all requirements and that no nuisance to the area is expected. Where regulations do not allow chalets (zoning plan), there is no objection to adapting them. Chalets will be built on a plot of land of 14.4 hectares, directly adjacent to the Venrayseweg, which may remain there for a maximum of ten years. There will be a parking lot for 314 cars, indoor and outdoor fitness rooms, three volleyball courts, barbecue corners, a lounge area with a large screen to watch sporting events together and a bicycle rental facility. There will be a manager's house on the site, with 24/7 supervision. The park is intended for short stay: maximum stay is four months.
Right
The arrival of 800 sleeping places for migrant workers is desperately needed: Venlo has previously decided to have around three thousand places for this target group staying in the country for a short period of time by 2025 at the latest. Of all migrant workers who come to this region, almost half fall into that category.
First of all, the floor belongs to the municipal council. Although it will find it annoying that the neighborhood does not feel heard, the council does not have many instruments or arguments to refuse the requested permit. And so after this month the only option left for the neighborhood is to go to court.
The fact that local residents are not satisfied with the way the environmental dialogue has been conducted does not mean that the permit application cannot be processed.
PDF file of this document

Load Date: June 12, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")