Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Neighborhood platforms fear even bigger and even more
The Limburger
September 26, 2018 Wednesday
Heuvelland


Copyright 2018 Media Groep Limburg / Dagblad De Limburger All Rights Reserved


Section: 02; Page 4
Length: 391 words
Byline: BY PASCALE THEWISSEN
Body


 FUTURE PLANS
MAASTRICHT
Maastricht is preparing for the future with the discussion paper Environmental Vision Maastricht 2040. But not everyone likes that growth scenario.
Too much emphasis on the economic development of the city and too little attention for the people who live there. Will they be happy with even more and even bigger? Is the average resident of Maastricht waiting for even more tourists, expats and students?
The Buurtbalans Foundation, in which 22 residents' organizations work together, makes these and other critical comments in the discussion paper Environmental Vision Maastricht 2040, which was discussed last night during a so-called city round.
The Jekerkwartier residents' association has the same concerns. "We miss the risk profile when analyzing the economic situation. The story is now too 'glorious': in addition to opportunities, the threats must also be weighed," she said in a letter to the council.
According to the residents' organizations, the municipality talks a lot about citizen participation, but in practice very little comes of it.
For example, virtually nothing can be found of the input of citizens and interest groups, who were allowed to express their opinions about the Environmental Vision during consultation evenings in the Center Céramique last June, they say.
According to Buurtbalans, there is hardly any room for real dialogue. "It will be clear that we find this course of events unacceptable in terms of both procedure and content."
In the discussion paper Environmental Vision Maastricht 2040, the municipality unfolds its future plans, under the motto: 'Room for development, guarantees for quality.'
From 2021, a new Environmental Act will apply that replaces 26 other regulations relating to, among other things, the environment, soil quality, safety requirements and building height, as well as the current zoning plans.
Maastricht wants to create conditions for sustainable growth, 'unlimited where necessary, relaxed where possible', it says.
The residents' associations don't like that. “Dear council members, it should not be the other way around. Namely: unlimited where possible, relaxed where necessary? Don't we want a more relaxed society together where it is a good life for everyone instead of pushing the boundaries of quality of life for the benefit of a few, often with negative consequences for many?"
PDF file of this document

Load Date: September 26, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")