Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Conflict surrounding the construction of homes in Eibergen: project developer and municipality point fingers at each other
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 6, 2024 Wednesday 07:29 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 764 words
Byline: Jelle Boesveld
Body


A little owl and goats are partly responsible for the fact that housing construction on the site of the Hartgerink garage in Eibergen is not getting off the ground. Berkelland and the project developer blame each other for the delay.
No new homes, but vacancy, dilapidation and fire risk. The demolition of the buildings of the former Hartgerink garage on Bronbeekstraat in Eibergen is taking a long time. “Why is there still no construction going on here?” former councilor Hans Pelle (PvdA) wondered last week. He pointed out that Eibergen has been waiting for housing to be built on this site for 14 years.
Deafening silence
Former councilor Maikel van der Neut (CDA) excitedly announced in 2021 that twelve homes would be built: four starter homes, three lifelong homes, four semi-detached homes and a detached home. But then there was deafening silence. Three years later, the situation surrounding the vacant buildings has only worsened, Pelle notes.
Why isn't anything happening? According to municipal spokesperson Henny Roos, we are waiting for the project developer. “Last January we spoke with the initiator about the research yet to be submitted for flora, fauna and archeology. It is ultimately up to the initiator and his advisor to take further steps in this project. We are working together on this.”
“Nonsense,” responds project developer Berend van Garderen of Brink Eibergen BV. "That is not true. Three years ago we made a plan. Berkelland agreed in principle. But then a new traffic expert suddenly joined the municipality and rejected the plan. The layout had to be completely different. We reached an agreement together, but then I said: Then also accelerate with the zoning plan. Berkelland promised to try to complete the zoning plan before the end of 2023, before the introduction of the new Environmental Act.
Read more below the photo
Since then, Van Garderen has been waiting for the municipality of Berkelland, he says. According to him, he would now make unreasonable demands. For example, the project developer should have a GGD study conducted into the dangers of Q fever for the future residents of the housing plan. “Because of a goat farm somewhere outside Eibergen, on the Borculoseweg. If that is the case, then isn't the whole of Eibergen at risk?"
Gas station has already been remediated
Van Garderen rejects that remediation of contaminated soil due to the former presence of a gas station would be the cause of the delay. “That gas station has already been remediated in the past. No, we really have to wait for the municipality. I don't know why it's taking so long, maybe capacity issues? But then Berkelland should not try to blame others. This is not going to make any progress.”
Read more below the photo
Alderman is surprised by the criticism
According to councilor Arjen van Gijssel, it is all a bit more nuanced. He is surprised by the criticism. “We spoke to each other on January 17 and we are working together to get things moving smoothly.” The CDA councilor confirms that the project developer must have the GGD test that there is no danger to public health due to possible Q fever. “But we as a municipality did not think of that, that is a new legal obligation if there is a goat farm within a radius of 2 kilometers. And that is the case here.”
Little Owl is in the way
According to him, the other problems are not due to Berkelland, but to external factors. “For example, the project developer of the Achterhoek Environmental Service (ODA) must dig test trenches because of the possible presence of archaeological values. But the nature department of the ODA does not allow this because a little owl has been spotted on site. And it must not be disturbed. Of course, you won't get any further this way, but we have an appointment next week to resolve this together.”
Disagreement about affordable price
According to Van Gijssel, there is still disagreement about the realization agreement between the municipality and the project developer. “This mainly concerns the affordability of housing. We set the limit for this in the Achterhoek at a maximum of 355,000 euros, nationally this is now 390,000 euros. But of course that is no longer affordable for almost anyone. A project developer naturally wants that amount as high as possible, we as a municipality want it to be as low as possible. Will we get out of there? Probably. But then there is still a hurdle to overcome. I therefore do not dare to say when construction can finally start on the Hartgerink site.”

Load Date: April 29, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")