Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Creative thinking for more homes
The Gelderlander
June 5, 2021 Saturday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2021 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 14, 15
Length: 679 words
Highlight: We need to think more out of the box to quickly solve the problems in the housing market. Raf Daenen, Jan Daenen and Willem Vermeulen think so.
Body


Choices were made during the liberalization of the housing market as a result of which we are now confronted with uneven growth and a tight housing market. It is estimated that there is now a shortage of 300,000 homes, and the shortage will increase in the coming years.

The construction of new social rental and owner-occupied homes is stagnating. Building a house costs more every year, the construction costs for a housing association will increase from 163,000 euros in 2019 to 223,000 euros in 2024. Mainly starters on the housing market and households with low incomes or with debts are the victims; it is often impossible for them to find good housing. The number of homeless people, which has already doubled in the past ten years, will undoubtedly continue to rise. While housing is a fundamental right.

The liberalization of the social housing market gave project developers ample scope. Due to scarcity, land prices and construction prices rose and low interest rates further drove up the prices of owner-occupied homes. Municipalities withdrew from active land policy and housing associations became looser from municipal influence. As a result, less focus is placed on the demographic need for housing supply and more on economic profitability and project development.

In addition, the landlord levy was introduced, which placed an additional burden on housing associations (responsible for social housing) and put additional pressure on the social housing sector. In addition, the recent construction crisis in relation to nitrogen emissions, which means that much less can be put out to tender. This crisis now appears to have been averted, but it does not solve the acute problem of too few homes in the social sector.

Proposals for solutions have been made by tenants and homeowners. The Housing Association wants the landlord levy to be scrapped and a special Ministry of Housing to be re-established so that better control can be exercised over housing construction and the use of existing properties. Cutting social assistance benefits if people share a home should also be scrapped. The Homeowners Association believes that construction should be done faster by shortening the years-long procedures.

These solutions will only provide relief in the longer term, because spatial planning procedures are slow and because the new environmental law will lead to personnel and implementation problems, especially in smaller municipalities. At the local level, there is often a lack of knowledge about active land policy, and municipalities often react too late compared to experienced project developers.

Therefore, other creative possibilities must be sought. How?

Offer engineering or architecture students the opportunity to transform vacant shops, schools, churches or business premises into temporary or even permanent student housing. Enter a dual purpose temporarily or permanently at (impoverished) recreational parks: residential and/or recreation. People are already living in many recreational parks and for many residents there is no alternative.
Young/old
It is also possible to push for smaller-scale living in parallel with the phenomenon of informal care by facilitating home division in the young/old combination, so that single-person households can live together/separately spatially.

In addition, tiny houses can be realized relatively quickly. Providing room for innovation in construction, for example by designating welfare-free project areas, could also be a solution for now.

The moral of the story: structural measures will not bring the desired balance to the housing market in the short term. We must therefore have the courage, in addition to long-term structural interventions, to think out of the box in the short term, so that sufficient affordable and effective housing is quickly created for those who need it.

Raf Daenen is a former councilor and social development teacher. Jan Daenen is an econometrician and member of the Provincial Council of Gelderland (PvdA). Willem Vermeulen is a psychologist.

View the original page: page 14, page 15

Graphic

 
Geldrop - A person standing in front of the shop window looking at available homes that the real estate agent offers.ANP / Hollandse Hoogte / Venema Media

Load Date: June 4, 2021, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")