Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Days are numbered for Manege De Heideruiter in Goirle: Timmerfabriek is going to expand there
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
December 22, 2023 Friday 01:19 PM GMT


Copyright 2023 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 300 words
Byline: Tom Tacken
Body


GOIRLE - After 47 years, the end is approaching for Manege De Heideruiter in Goirle. The land along the Turnhoutsebaan was purchased by Timmerfabriek Frank van Roij.
That fast-growing company, specialized in timber frame construction, reportedly has its head office nearby at the Tijvoort business park. The company cannot be reached for comment, but a branch would be built on the site where Cees van den Broek started his riding school in 1976. His son Thijs indicated years ago that he wanted to leave the current location. "We can't do anything here, we are trapped between the companies," he told the Brabants Dagblad in 2016.
The family does not want to discuss its future now. It is certain that the then planned move to the other side of the Turnhoutsebaan will not go ahead. However, there is now talk of relocation to the location of Stal Romp on the Rielsedijk, close to the bicycle tunnel. “We are negotiating with the Van den Broek family,” Ruben Romp agrees. His company was founded by father Bert, who was a rider at the Olympic Games but died five years ago after being kicked by a horse.
Riding lessons already stopped
The riding lessons at De Heideruiter stopped on October 1. “We will continue to only keep boarding horses,” the family communicated. Daughter Lieke has been operating her own horse company Lieke's Hoeve across the border in Poppel for some time. Son Wouter is also involved in equestrian sports.
The canceled move of De Heideruiter to the other side of the provincial road was part of the so-called Fokmast Experimental Garden. With that plan, Goirle anticipated the new Environmental Act. The intention was to connect all kinds of developments. At the last minute - the Environmental Act comes into effect on January 1 - this was achieved. There is a draft zoning plan.

Load Date: December 22, 2023, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")