Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Install a dormer window, heat pump or air conditioning? Apeldoorn is going to relax the rules (but just be patient)
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
March 18, 2024 Monday 06:00 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 283 words
Byline: Johannes Rutgers
Body


Installing a dormer window, heat pump or air conditioning in Apeldoorn will soon be permit-free in more cases. The municipality is expanding the rules for several types of construction projects and technical installations.
This year the Environmental Act came into effect in the Netherlands. This means that all kinds of matters relating to building and living are arranged differently. Municipalities must work with an environmental plan: a package with general rules for building, living and the design of space.
Municipalities have some freedom in the area of ​​permits. They can determine where a prior test is required (and therefore a permit), and what residents and companies can arrange without government permission.
Air conditioning
Apeldoorn is taking this opportunity to declare more buildings and technical installations permit-free. For example, a bay window can soon be slightly deeper (1.50 meters instead of 1.20 meters) before official permission is required. A dormer window without a permit may be slightly larger.
And the rules are also becoming more flexible around extensions, air conditioning on flat roofs, heat pumps on the ground behind the building, cellars, roof structures and around insulation plates on a facade.
Introduction
A small setback for those who want to benefit from it immediately: it will take a while before everything is implemented. Apeldoorn must further develop and implement this so-called environmental plan. However, the municipality is already trying to introduce a scheme that anticipates this. This means that the extensions can come into effect more quickly. This is now expected to happen in the first quarter of next year.
Most extensions do not apply to national and municipal monuments and to protected city and village views.

Load Date: March 18, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")