Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Data leak in headache file surrounding duck slaughterhouse in Ermelo: 'This damages our privacy'
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
April 13, 2024 Saturday 04:00 AM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 713 words
Byline: Gep Leeflang
Body


There is renewed commotion about the municipal approach to the headache file surrounding the Tomassen Duck-To duck slaughterhouse in Ermelo. Residents are complaining about a data breach after being approached by an external agency about the duck file. The municipality had passed on their information to that office.
In the last months that Hugo Weidema is alderman - he will leave no later than September 1 because the aldermanship is too difficult for him - he tries to keep the duck file on track. To this end, he agreed a letter of intent with the slaughterhouse, after which Tomassen Duck-To submitted a new permit application.
The council hopes that the years of problems surrounding Tomassen Duck-To will be over once the permit has been granted. However, critics - including the DOEH Foundation, which has already conducted several lawsuits over the file - call this a utopia.
While the documents submitted by Tomassen Duck-To are being carefully studied by the municipality, several interested parties have been approached by Tertium for an interview. This is an agency that is concerned, among other things, with resident participation. Tertium approached the residents on behalf of the municipal council. The council has crossed the line, they complain.
Among them Aart and Sabine Evers. They live at the rear of the slaughterhouse complex and were shocked about a year ago when a councilor position was too difficult for him to be stripped. It happened at the location where they fear that Tomassen Duck-To wants to realize an extra exit. They have been opposing it ever since. The fact that they were contacted by Tertium by e-mail did not go down well with them. The municipality knows their email address. But how did the external agency get that?
They complained about this and received a message from the municipal project manager. She offered her 'sincere apologies' for the use of their email address: 'I should not have used that without your permission and it will not happen again.' With that message in hand, they filed an official complaint.
Privacy law
They say that the fact that Ermelo has their email address does not mean that she should have passed it on to an external agency. “This damages our privacy and the municipality of Ermelo does not comply with privacy legislation,” they write.
According to the neighbors, the contract with Tertium shows that this agency 'examines the possibilities for a participation process' on behalf of the municipality. It informed them: 'As a first step, we would like to interview a number of Ermelo residents involved. This way we can get an idea of ​​the different concerns, wishes and ideas. These interviews form the basis for advice to the municipality of Ermelo about structuring participation in the file.'
Dutch Data Protection Authority
This approach is surprising to the DOEH Foundation. Secretary Cora van Eijsden was also contacted by Tertium by email and also filed a complaint. She also informed the Dutch Data Protection Authority. She states that after Evers' complaint, the municipality should have contacted all at least twelve people invited by the agency for an interview about the violation.
The data protection officer of the municipality of Ermelo acknowledges in a written response to Van Eijsden that 'mistakes were made in the implementation': 'Sharing e-mail addresses with this agency should not have happened.' registered as a data breach.
Wasted money
DOEH chairman Heidi Daenen also has major doubts about the content. “Participation should happen in advance, not afterwards,” she emphasizes. “This is a waste of money. We would like to know how much, but no one is clear about that."
De Stentor asked the municipality questions about this. Participation is a task of the party applying for the permit and not of the municipality. Why does he do this? Has the municipal council been informed about this? The municipality does not yet want to respond to these and other questions.
Municipal councilor Han Wilhelm already asked written questions about the course of events. Participation must take place in advance and the council must be involved in accordance with the Environmental Act, he says. Has the council received information about this? Wilhelm: “Nothing at all.”

Load Date: April 14, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")