Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text='The fact that water is so self-evident is also our problem'
The Gelderlander
January 18, 2018 Thursday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2018 Wegener NieuwsMedia BV All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 12, 13
Length: 1098 words
Byline: SJORS MOOLENAAR
Highlight: In November there was GenX in the tap water of three Dutch water companies. Will the substance soon also be in Vitens' water?
Body


Vitens CEO Jelle Hannema hopes for more awareness among municipalities
Vitens is doing well. The Gelderland water company, which supplies drinking water to 5.6 million Dutch people, has been able to reduce the water rate again this year, thanks to the good results. The new CEO Jelle Hannema (56), who rose internally in the company, has therefore boarded a moving train. Although he and fellow director Marike Bonhof - who started on September 1 - were, in their own words, 'thrown to the lions'.

Since Hannema started working at Vitens, no bottle of water has entered his house. According to the director, drinking tap water is one of the easiest ways to be sustainable. “We pump up groundwater because it requires as little processing as possible. We then bring it into pipes, versus bottled water that has to be trucked to stores. The total ecological footprint of piped water is much more sustainable than bottled water.”

“GenX has been found in surface water. We make drinking water from groundwater, but we sometimes also encounter substances near our sources that we would rather not see. We are fortunate that we have a lot of groundwater in the east of the Netherlands. Our colleagues in the west do not have that. Surface water requires much more purification. Moreover, you can see groundwater contamination coming sooner. If we notice something, we can act in time. This way we can change well fields or close extraction locations, as we did in the center of Nijmegen."

Yet on Twitter you appealed to Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen of Infrastructure and Water Management to take action for the quality of groundwater. Why?

"That was to bring the advice of an advisory body to the minister to her attention. The responsibility for groundwater is simply not properly allocated at the moment. If we see a problem, who should we contact? Rijkswaterstaat? Regional water authorities? Province? Things are only getting busier underground with the energy transition. That is why it is important to now have clarity about who is responsible for this. The word 'water' only appears twice in the coalition agreement. Taking water for granted is also our problem. That is why it is up to us to emphasize the importance of drinking water. Drinking water seems obvious, but it is not and it will not remain so. We may be a modest sector, but our interests are also those of the customer. That's why we want to burn our water more."

To burn? Want to establish water as a brand?

"That people can say: 'I come from Arnhem-Noord, this is where my water comes from.' You drink water from the Veluwe, from the Utrechtse Heuvelrug, Twente. We would like it if people became more aware of their environment. Water must become more of us all. Less anonymous. It seems so obvious, open the tap, take a shower, make tea. But just think about it. Look at the reliability of water availability. Appreciate the value and taste of the tap water. I hope people realize how beautiful this product is, in terms of quality and durability."

A new law will come into effect in 2021, which places a much greater task and responsibility on municipalities in the field of spatial planning. What does this mean for Vitens?

“Municipalities will soon become very important in the implementation of the new Environmental Act. An integrated consideration is then required for spatial decisions. A serious point for us: is the importance of drinking water sufficiently taken into account in this integrated assessment? We are invisible, as in: we are always there. Drinking water must be protected in spatial plans. That is why the upcoming municipal elections are so important. When people wonder 'How do I vote?', I say 'Vote for water'. You see locally that people often have the deciding factor in the debate. Look carefully at who is a candidate and be critical. So that industry will not be made possible in the vicinity of groundwater extraction or other activities that are harmful to groundwater. You know, the underground, no one used to go there except us. Now, the energy transition means much more will be in the ground. That's good, but put it side by side. Of course I understand that voters also look at other things, but take this into account. In addition to being consumers, we are all responsible for our living environment."

Other energy companies have difficulty finding technical people. For example, Alliander fears more power outages due to the lack of technicians. How is that for you?

“In terms of mechanics, it's not too bad for us. But there is a bottleneck with the contractors we need for reconstructions and new construction. We can simply place fewer orders and prices are rising. Last year, it meant that new connections (which energy companies jointly make for new construction, SM) had to wait. If that continues, it will mean something. But if I look at the long term, there are a lot of young people fresh out of school who have an affinity with ICT. And I think we are attractive enough for young people.”

There is a lot to do about precario, the tax on the use of public land, which a number of Gelderland municipalities charge to Vitens. You pass this on to the customer, who therefore pays more.

“We are strongly against the precario tax. Drinking water is a basic necessity of life, the tax should be zero, or at least as low as possible. I think precario is undesirable, because we are being assessed for something that we cannot do anything about. Those pipes are just there, underground. But we will always pass on the levy. If we do not do this, other customers will contribute to the precario of those few municipalities. And it is not our problem, but that of politics. Thanks to our invoices, a discussion has arisen in municipal councils, such as in Lingewaard (where residents receive 105 euros in precario tax back, SM), and that is the right place."

It seems so obvious, clean drinking water from the tap. But all kinds of dangers lurk. So there is work to be done for the new director of Vitens, Jelle Hannema. A conversation about tap water, sustainability, the danger of pollution and the risks of ignorant city council members.
We are strongly against the levy of precario. Water is a basic necessity of life

View the original page: page 12, page 13

Graphic

 
Vitens CEO Jelle Hannema.

Load Date: January 17, 2018, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")