Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The dredged material goes back into the puddles
The Gelderlander
November 11, 2020 Wednesday
Achterhoek Doetinchem EditionAchterhoek Winterswijk EditionArnhem EditionBetuwe EditionLiemers EditionMaas en Waal EditionMaasland EditionNijmegen EditionRenkum EditionRijk van Nijmegen EditionRivierenland EditionVallei EditionVeluwezoom Oost EditionWijchen Beuningen Edition


Copyright 2020 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: De Gelderlander; Page 6, 7
Length: 1750 words
Byline: NIEK OPTEN
Highlight: The filling of deep puddles with contaminated soil and dredged material was halted for a while, but is about to start again in many places in the region.
Body


DEEPENED CONTAMINATED SOIL
The truck slowly drives backwards towards the water of the Koornwaard, on the bank of the Maas near Empel. The loading platform rises and the black dredged material slides into the former sand excavation. Further on in the lake there is a plateau where ships with sludge can be unloaded. A total of 5 million cubic meters of soil and dredging sludge must turn this deep, dark lake into a nature reserve with gentle banks and swamp.

These activities will soon be available again in many places in the East of the Netherlands. This region has twenty deep lakes that may be filled with reusable, slightly polluted soil and dredged material, as sludge from ditches, shipping channels and ports is officially called, under the heading of nature improvement. That is almost half of the national total. Especially in the floodplains of the Waal, Maas, Rhine and IJssel, but also deeper into the country, as far as Twente.

Local residents and nature organizations have been concerned about this for some time. "There are now too many deep ponds that are being deepened," says Alex de Meijer of Natuur en Milieu Gelderland, the umbrella organization of local and regional nature and environmental organizations in this province. Governments agreed in 2009 that these types of projects would be completed within ten years. must be completed after the start. To be able to fill all those puddles in time, there is not always enough material available. That is why sludge is also imported from abroad. De Meijer: "The control over this is not always good."

For example, puddles were used as rubbish dumps, and the dredged material also included rubbish such as aerosol cans, batteries and a lot of plastic. State Secretary Stientje van Veldhoven then tightened the standards for this. Recently there was a fuss about filling the Over de Maas lake near Alphen with granulite, a waste product from the asphalt industry of which it is still not clear how neutral that material is. "The pace must be reduced," says De Meijer. "Fewer puddles and only soil and sludge from the region and from the same river basin."

The province of Gelderland now also wants to draw clear regional boundaries. In September, a majority of Members of Parliament agreed to new policy by CDA deputy Peter Drenth. The basic principle for new sand pits is that they are not deepened with contaminated soil and sludge and otherwise only come from the own region. Even though the province does not have much say in this matter, Drenth also realizes. He is dependent on municipalities, water boards or the government for this. Objecting to individual projects is difficult; the executor does not need a separate permit for deepening. This will probably change at the beginning of 2022, when the new Environmental Act comes into effect.

At the GrondbankGMG office in Andelst, right next to the A15 highway, they did not hear much new in Drenth's plans. "Much of what it contains is already daily practice for us," say project leaders Iwan Reerink and Wim Vermeule of this company. They explain this again in a letter to the deputy.

GrondbankGMG is involved in most redevelopment plans for deep lakes in Eastern Netherlands. Reerink and Vermeule think the idea of ​​'only own sludge' is a strange idea in itself. Not every province has lakes that are suitable for this. “Do they have to build locations specifically for this purpose? But most soil and dredged material is already being reused within a radius of 35 kilometers, because transport is expensive."

In total, about 10 percent of the sludge that GrondbankGMG uses for deepening comes from abroad, which varies per project. What is wrong with dredged material from the German part of the Rhine area if it meets Dutch standards, Reerink and Vermeule wonder out loud. "This sludge comes straight to the Netherlands via the river."

Moreover, such a geographical demarcation on the European market is not legally feasible if the dredged material and soil meet all standards. “The import and export of waste is laid down in European regulations. Individual member states cannot deviate from this with their own rules," says Pieter Kuypers, professor of international and European law at Radboud University in Nijmegen.

However, the use of soil or sludge with a different composition is not without risks, even if it meets all standards. “Because not all substances are measured in advance. And because reality is often more complex than we can foresee in advance," says environmental chemist Joop Harmsen, who worked at Wageningen University until his retirement.
Nasty gunk
This became apparent at the beginning of this year at the clay pit on the Driemarkweg in Winterswijk, where deepening turned the clear water into a dirty sludge. Insufficient account had been taken of sulphate, which is naturally present in increased concentrations in the water of the well, Harmsen concluded after studying the matter at the request of De Gelderlander. "This no longer has much to do with improving ecological values, the most important argument for deepening." The municipality of Winterswijk, owner of the lake, halted work pending an investigation.

But there is also something else going on. The filling of all the lakes in our country was halted for more than six months. This was due to concerns about PFAS, a group of toxic substances that are difficult to break down and occur everywhere in our environment. The national standards have now been extended for the time being and puddles can again be filled gradually. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management has published an overview of all fifty deep ponds that qualify for this.

Different standards apply to PFOS, one of the most harmful types of the PFAS family. Compared to deep ponds inland, holes along the major rivers may be filled with soil and dredging containing almost three times as much PFOS, 3.7 micrograms per kilo. Because this substance already occurs to that extent in the floodplains, mainly supplied via river water. For all other PFAS types, the standard is 0.8 micrograms per kilo.

“There is a persistent image that we pollute the lakes because we dump soil containing PFAS. But PFAS is already there. It is everywhere in our environment. Even in our bodies." Dredging and excavation are often a necessity, Reerink continues, to prevent ships from running aground or water from flowing away properly. "The soil and dredged material are not our problem, they are the problem of all of us. We have to do something about that. We ensure that this happens according to all the rules. Yes, there are examples where things have not gone well, but we have already created a number of beautiful nature reserves."
Solar panels
In any case, Deputy Drenth wants to get rid of the automatic practice of filling in the holes after excavating sand, clay or soil. For example, they could also be partly used to float solar panels. But that dirty soil and dredged material has to go somewhere. He therefore wants to focus more on cleaning sludge or processing it above ground. Reerink: “Cleaning sounds great, but it is not. That takes a lot of energy and you are always left with a residual product. And how clean is clean?" It was recently announced that a dike in Bunschoten that had been reinforced with thermally cleaned soil had to be excavated again. The soil met all requirements at the time, but now appears to be contaminated.
Good sides
There are also good aspects to deepening, says Alex de Meijer of Gelderland Nature and Environment, such as the creation of more nature reserves. Shallow ponds have a lot to offer for birds, insects and plants. "But deep puddles can also have natural values." The Nijmegen company B-Ware is currently conducting research into this in the river area, commissioned by Rijkswaterstaat. Previously, research by the Netherlands Institute for Ecology NIOO-KNAW showed that the ecological quality of deep puddles in Brabant can even be better than that of Verondiep.

The reluctance of the province of Gelderland is in line with a recommendation by Wim Kuijken last month. The top official conducted research into the granulite issue in Over de Maas on behalf of Minister Cora van Nieuwenhuizen. The policy surrounding deep ponds is too focused on the economic revenue model of extracting sand, clay and gravel and then deepening the deep holes, he says. First money is made from excavating, then from filling. 'More attention should be paid to ecology.'

Especially at a time when criticism of this 'deepening' is growing.
How dirty is the ground and sludge?
Colloquially, filling deep puddles is often called dumping, but those involved make a distinction. Dredged material (sludge) is being dumped in a few places in the Netherlands, they emphasize. In the eastern Netherlands in the Ingensche Waarden (a lake next to the Rhine near Ingen), in the Kaliwaal (Boven-Leeuwen) and in the IJsseloog, an artificial island in the Ketelmeer between Flevoland and the Noordoostpolder. This concerns sludge from waterways and ports that is too polluted to be usefully used anywhere and that is no longer allowed to come into contact with the environment and groundwater. The largest dumping site for sludge is De Slufter, on the Maasvlakte.

In accordance with the Soil Quality Decree, material is used in all these other deep ponds to deepen them, for example to create new nature. This soil and dredged material is often moderately polluted and therefore not suitable for building houses, but in itself it is not harmful to humans. Opinions differ about the effect on nature. This material does not need to be stored in a shielded manner. However, a clean layer of soil is placed on top.

Het Schone Oosten is the investigative editorial staff of De Gelderlander, De Stentor and Twentsche Courant Tubantia, made possible with support from the Journalism Incentive Fund. Do you have a comment or tip? Email hetschoneoosten @dpgmedia.nl or app to 06-25008597. Also follow us on Twitter (@HetSchone) and Facebook (facebook.com/hetschoneoosten)

On dg.nl/diepeplassen there is an overview with a brief description of all deep lakes in Eastern Netherlands that are eligible for deepening.
info
The soil and dredged material are not our problem, they are everyone's problem
Only soil and sludge from the region and from the same river basin

View the original page: page 6, page 7

Load Date: November 10, 2020, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")