Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=Freshening things up turned out to be quite a job in the Lingewaard council
The Gelderlander
April 1, 2022 Friday
Betuwe Edition


Copyright 2022 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Section: Region; Page 3
Length: 754 words
Byline: JESSE REITH
Highlight: As a 25-year-old woman, freshening things up in the municipality of Lingewaard. That's what Mandy Roelofs decided four years ago. Now she stops. "An hour and a half of talking about a paving stone or a hedge does not, of course, make politics more attractive to young people."
Body


Mandy Roelofs
Jesse Reith

Huissen

Mandy Roelofs was motivated to enter politics from an early age. She always watched the NPO channel Politics and News. But her ambition was always local: no need to go to The Hague. Interpreting the underrepresented youth voice was the reason why Huissense turned to B06 Lingewaard in the autumn of 2017.

She turned out to be more than welcome there. During the municipal elections in March 2018, she was in fifth place on the list of candidates. "I received 299 votes. A surprising amount, even more than Patrick Hegeman, now party chairman of B06. People wanted a young woman in politics, I noticed. Then I decided: now I'm going to do it too."

She joined the council at the age of 25. That took some getting used to, not only for herself, but also for colleagues and journalists. At Omroep Gelderland they once thought they were dealing with the 12-year-old children's mayor. Roelofs devoted himself fanatically to topics about spatial planning and the social domain, but four years later the political adventure is already over. She did not make herself available for a new round.
Why are you stopping?
“Council work takes a lot of time, easily twenty hours a week. You will be away from home for at least three evenings and then all kinds of emails and texts arrive just before the meeting. Moreover, you want to show your face everywhere. All in all, it was difficult to combine with my work as a project leader at the municipality of Oude IJsselstreek. There is another reason: as a young person I was not as patient as my older colleagues. The shorter the agenda, the longer the council meeting, strangely enough. Then I sometimes thought: 'Come on, let's get on with it all.' I am a lawyer and I want to get to the point one way or the other. Colleagues could see non-verbally what I thought of the sometimes slow meetings. Talking for an hour and a half about a paving stone or a hedge does not, of course, make politics more attractive for residents, especially young people. That can be done more smoothly. I also thought the harsh relations between opposition and coalition were a shame. Ultimately you are there for all residents, so let's focus more on collaboration. I want to spend more time on my work and enjoy an evening off every now and then. Maybe I'll be back on the council when I'm fifty."
There is no shortage of people in their fifties on the council, but there is a shortage of young people. What needs to be done to get that group interested in local politics?
"I don't have a solution available. There is already stricter supervision to ensure that meetings run smoothly. Of course there must be room for debate, but for young people with little political interest the council is not always attractive 'television'. Also the hustle and bustle after a day of work - eating quickly, and then the council meeting until the late hours - is fun for few. I also sometimes received comments about my age. For example, a fellow councilor said during a debate: 'I have been on the council for more than ten years and you have only just arrived'. That is precisely a reason to listen to my arguments. I would place the few young people who are on the candidate lists higher on the electoral list. That doesn't always happen now. By the way, they are there: 25-year-old Timo Leissner received a hundred votes for B06. At D66, Brandon Brom (23) is also a good example. As a tip, I would give young people interested in politics to join a party. Visit a party meeting, go to a youth council meeting or attend a political evening. You learn to deal with all kinds of people and discover the ins and outs of local government."
Are you leaving local politics completely?
“I remain active behind the scenes at B06. I represent the party during political evenings on topics related to spatial planning. There are all kinds of things coming up in that area, such as the Environmental Act. I find that very interesting."

a Mandy Roelofs (January 16, 1993) has lived in Huissen all her life.

a After high school, she studied law at the Arnhem and Nijmegen University of Applied Sciences. She graduated in 2017 and did an internship at the municipality of Lingewaard at the time.

a In 2021, Mandy Roelofs obtained a master's degree in law from Radboud University Nijmegen, with a major in civil law. She has been working as an Environmental Act project leader at the municipality of Oude IJsselstreek in Gendringen since 2019.

a She lives with her boyfriend in the Loovelden district.
For young people with little political interest, the council is not always attractive 'television'

View the original page: page 3

Graphic

 
Mandy Roelofs Photo Edwin Tiggers

Load Date: March 31, 2022, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")