Translated(src=nl, dest=en, text=The stove can continue to smoke at Schouwen-Duiveland: no ban, but please take each other into account
AD/Algemeen Dagblad.nl
January 10, 2024 Wednesday 12:17 PM GMT


Copyright 2024 DPG Media B.V. All Rights Reserved


Length: 477 words
Byline: Valeska Nastaly
Body


The temperatures are low and therefore the chimneys of almost all houses with a wood stove smoke. That's fine as long as neighbors are not extremely inconvenienced by it, according to the municipal council of Schouwen-Duiveland. There will be no ban, but the municipality does ask residents to burn responsibly.
Jeffrey van Doorenmalen of D66 pointed out almost two years ago in a council meeting to the Clean Air Agreement (SLA) that was concluded in 2020 between the government, various provinces and municipalities. Due to rising energy prices, he expected more people to burn wood, but he also noted that the municipality of Schouwen-Duiveland has no provisions regarding wood burning in its General Local Ordinance (APV). The municipality therefore cannot intervene in the event of irresponsible heating behavior. Nevertheless, Van Doorenmalen submitted the Stookalert motion in the council meeting of May 25, 2022, together with the Leefbaar, PvdA, CDA, GroenLinks and VVD factions.
It is difficult to actively discourage or prohibit it because until January 1, 2022, there were even government subsidy options for the purchase of high-efficiency stoves.
In the motion, the petitioners ask the municipal council to investigate the municipality's options regarding wood burning. The bottom line is that the wood stoves can continue to burn, but the municipality asks residents to prevent nuisance. 'In our heat transition vision, burning for heat is neither recommended nor discouraged. Actively advising against or prohibiting it is difficult because until January 1, 2022, there were even government subsidy options for the purchase of high-efficiency stoves,' the municipal council now writes in a letter to the council in response to the motion.
Heat alerts
The municipality cannot and does not want to ban. However, it does include principles about wood burning in the environmental vision that municipalities are required to draw up due to the Environmental Act that came into effect on January 1. The bottom line is that the municipality distributes information about responsible heating and wants to pay extra attention to this. The municipality also shares national heating alerts from the RIVM via its social media channels.
In the motion, Van Doorenmalen points out that residents can subscribe to such a boiler alert. He would have liked to see it possible to take enforcement action if someone knowingly uses irresponsible or unsafe fuel. Although the D66 faction and the other petitioners do not believe a ban is feasible or desirable, they do point out that 'clean air is of great importance for everyone'. They also attach importance to good communication: 'Residents must know how to burn wood responsibly. For example, in calm weather and/or fog, wood burning is not recommended, but it is also not wise to use materials other than untreated wood in the stove.' to burn.

Load Date: January 10, 2024, pronunciation=[[]], extra_data="{'translat...")